somebody else than y'all think is y'all thinking what mean y'all. But as happened in most of you and in this world of uh a new sense of dignity and this new sense of self respect, a new negro came into being with a new determination to suffer, to struggle, to sacrifice and even to die if necessary in order to be free. Recognizing the two voices at the the documentary the background. The first or the second? We recognize the first and the second voice. It's two Americans, two Americans.  Two American civil rights leaders. Second voice is that of Martin Luther King. Um and the first is Malcolm X.  So, uh I don't know if you can remember from one of the earlier uh readings from this unit were uh decolonization and the Cold War reading.  Decolonization in Africa starts to happen at the same time as the civil rights movement in uh the United States.  And I'll talk more about some of the uh African nationalist and where they get their inspiration from, but so those are the the narration, the voices that they put over the images, that's the voices of um  Malcolm X who is uh say civil rights leader, he is kind of seen as more radical than um Martin Luther King as Martin Luther King takes the approach of a non-violent civil disobedience um approach to addressing um segregation and of the really terrible regime that existed in the United States, again, black Americans versus um Malcolm X's an approach where he thought that black Americans should perhaps fight back more aggressively against this oppressive system. Uh
And as the people in Africa and Asia European yards, they now it is necessary. Negro came the field that  Ring had imagine that the touchstone of the post-world war.  By the 1950s, colonial war produced a key of African nationalist intellectuals and behind them large, urbanized, and literate working classes. Now we all  can witness the power of nationalism. In India where Gamal Abdel Nasser expelled the British and in Algeria where the resistance stood firm in its war of liberation from France. At the same time, the presence of the United Nations, the rise of the civil rights movement in the United States. And the nascent apartheid movement, focused the lens of world scrutiny on the land rights and spurred on colonized people in their call for self-sovereignty. And had to stand by if you like or not, arrangement our army of progress, and is free. In 1957, Ghana became the first self-governing state within Ghana transfer of power to Kwame Nkrumah. Why we consider the father of African nationalism. It was in British by the United States. The one who is truly experienced. The Americans did the same thing to the Americans. The Dutch and all the countries instead of which one. Africa.  And then the colonial era America, and the whole colony in Africa. Nkrumah had inspired others with his vision of the United States of Africa.  Then like Leo and Roy Senegal, the independent Ghana, to Kenyatta in Kenya. Men who received colonial education. With the idea of empire increasingly unpalatable to the voting public, European governments had little choice but to work with the nationalists. There was an indifference at this stage towards the Empire, towards the colonies. Uh and I found that really rather depressing. Um you know you start talking about it, you know people that are like, should that other bank or something. There was just this this idea that that colonialism is is wrong and and needs to be got rid of. The pressure for formal colonization had been building ever since the end of the Second World War. The turning point came on Wednesday the 3rd of February 1960. When look is blowing over the. Whether we like it or not. Those last will go to the end in 60. Which is Prime Minister Harold MacMillan delivered a warning shot to the whites of apartheid South Africa, and a death note to the colonial venture across the continent. That uh signal to my mind the idea that uh the Britain disapproved and the world disapproved of of apartheid um and the racism of apartheid but it didn't necessarily mean that we were giving up on our well. And Africa. I didn't think so. In fact within 10 months of Harold MacMillan's speech, Britain had surrendered two key for the territory. The rate of decolonization when it arrived was breathtaking. As many were  available 1960 was hailed the year of Africa. And  holiday with the colonial powers continued into the next three decades. Who's true power was the truth to the fact.  And they realized that way time to even with the native of Africa and Asia. To begin few of the possible nature of  Sub-Saharan Africa, but the French will show.  Then we'll be better prepared to negotiate with nationalism and anti-nationalism. Will you go back to the Congo one day? You will go back to the Congo. you'll think like Africa has been, they are. But no sooner had African nationalists escaped the shackles of colonialism, than a new battle for economic power was underway. The Cold War.  That when the colonial idea had built politicians spellbound, the communists had hoisted it. And throughout their years of struggle, African nationalists had found a powerful friend in the Soviet Union.  The these two great powers, America and Russia, begin to carve up the world between them. Independence, going side, but the Cold War where uh in matters. Which side the president was in terms of this global struggle between Russia and America. And they both tried to organize coups to get their people in. And this was very destabilizing. The Congo's Patrice Lumumba was a hardline nationalist labeled a communist by America.  In  the US  red tape of the pay off when in 1960, he oversaw the handover of sovereignty from Belgium.  Who was  become victim of oppression of West and East. The Congo. Because militia leaders with control of the mineral rich Katanga province, refused to be swallowed up in a wider republic, they're quite the Soviet back in Lumumba.  Caring their own material bases, the US and Belgium supported the rebels. And just three weeks after bringing the country to independence, Lumumba was captured by the Katanga military, tortured and then killed. Including in which they. the first ones were. Colonial riches combined with global geopolitical, had again proven a disastrous mix. And with three debts of overt colonial exploitation, the scribe of resources was driven from the ground. For a fleeting moment, the Lumumba affair raised questions of what in Africa would replace the strong arm of colonial rule and whether national unity was achievable with hostility boiling beneath the surface.  In the excitement of independence, this was quickly forgotten. I know what the irony is is that the European countries that were democratic um didn't really introduce much democracy to Africa. So when independence comes, very few people can vote. Um, many of these countries then politically experienced all sorts of political problems and had been suppressed by colonial. The then burst out because the many of those might in Congo um have seen all the countries to pieces. I think it was a very unplanned thing frankly. And it was only in the last two year and a half or so before independence, that all of a sudden um with independence looming, uh we started to have accelerated programs to to the to train locals, but that that wasn't enough. So in the end, we handed over to a country which was not properly prepared for independence. I think that we have done Africa a lot of good by staying and preparing flat out um for another five or six years. But the Africans everywhere, decolonization couldn't happen fast enough.  That generation of Nigerians, it was just a feeling of complete euphoria, um of confidence, um uh of total confidence in the future of Nigeria. I really did, you know, that Nigeria was um and and all of Africa and Nigeria. Um they begin to very much in that idea that the whole of Africa um was ready to rise um from from the shackles of the past. We do, if I can talk to the colonial power.  So we're talking about 10 million.  Celebrating independence, and  Nigeria project. That euphoria will last. And they sisters in the in the United states of 1970.  And the civil war.  And many of them there.  And they began it's 62 or 62.  The other has been. The military began to be itself. They were not true. They are not true. They're only house and specialize in work in the use of world power and so on, and they have no physical ambition except in the security of the country and so on.  So you have to become a new leadership for older government, but was  terrible. Many leaders of states of Africa left with the legacy of oppression and the challenges of statehood were soon consumed by inter power struggles. In many cases, militia bands overran the nationalist figures. But in the post-colonial independence, there were 40 successful coups and many more failed ones.  Over British territory went through a part by that conflict as the dark side of gradually came to light.  One of the problems with independence when it came was that the colonial powers hadn't.  Nigeria, Nigerians as Nigerians, they're Umba, they're Husa, people or Yoruba people or Igbo people. And they're Kenyans as Kenyans or the community or the Kenyan people. And suddenly they all have been very much. That they're um very quickly, the politicians naturally look to their own people for their political power base.  And they and this became very ethnicized. Are you going to see color images like your people? Make that connection to that uh when we talked about national identity. I see a created concept and national identity be created out of anti-colonial movements and that national identity is unifying right against colonization, but at the same time. It can break down and you saw that in the Indian independence movement with the unity and then the kind of crumbling of that Indian community uh via the two major various uh religious groups.  In Africa, you have the same colonial policy of um divide and rule. And so they were ruling people by their ethnic groups. In some places, they were learning that they created ethnic groups. It it up. Um and so after independence, people are kind of in their group and that's the resentment and the anger is what it boils up and there's a lot of ethnic conflict and violence ethnic conflicts that will erupt in Africa. The treaty claims which colonized the over 2 million people are put to the time they're ethnic violence in that British colony. The  30 years after the independence in the 60. And they uh they uh they've lost some uh political class and already in that point guided against itself. They either have a system where chiefs or kings, um run things uh and and just provide to uh districts, officers. In West Nigeria, as a result of these encounters, schools were built, churches were built. And very quickly, and the elite, an educated elite, um, emerged. Um, in the north, again, with the same system, the the chiefs of the Kings. Say, okay. Accept to  accepts you as a political power. The kings just step in and just stay out or our business or something, and and so they, in most parts of the north, they would not allow churches and for their Muslim. The consequence of that a couple of years later was that there was an imbalance between the North and the South and then and there will be a civil war. But elsewhere, the problem was the rate of decolonization, but the lack of it. France redefined its relationship with its African colony to become the unseen hand in national affairs. Quietly, French control was going underground. The French never really left when independence. For I know it's been a many years afterwards, the new director in France, in South Africa, there will be a French minister. Behind the door, there will be a Frenchman um signing with the chance, doing a camp, reporting to Paris. In 2006, President Sarkozy promised a cleaner of the French foothold in Africa, no more secrets, real independence.  But there's still their celebration in Paris this year sent a clear message that they remain as closely interested in the continent's affairs as they ever were. And ever since independence, domination of resources had continued to fuel violence in many states with former Belgium colonies still seeming locked in a vicious cycle of conflict over rich mines.  African rulers, foreign multinationals and governments have continued to strike deals to plunder commodities. And help crippled national economies already set back by the colonial experience. As we are in the 19th century, the Europeans just went in and enslaved people, force them to dig, and uh and took it all for themselves. I think these days there's a complicity between the uh the rulers of Africa and Western company, these or middle man minds in whichever country, um uh you you're talking about. That you needed somebody to bring in the uh the personnel and the equipment to to dig out the minerals. Um to employ people to continue to dig out the minerals, to maintain the place. Outside investment, then as now, it's terribly important. The continuing diversion of minerals isn't the only exploitative practice. Today, Africa is the largest recipient of external aid in the world. A continent where a hard population survive on less than a dollar a day.  But for every aid dollar coming in, $10 are lost through illegal capital flight out.  $300 billion are lost of Africa between 2000 2008.  That is illegally and secretly. Um and much of that spread into uh tax havens, owned by European countries, uh Britain in particular. Um and so these, so many people of Africa haven't benefited from this this last decade which has been um a very brutal Africa. Looking around. But even when you go to an. Post-independence, you have  political instability and and continuous economic exploitation that were neo-colonialism you can definitely use in the context of independence in Africa. Um Europeans never set up any infrastructure or system to uh for for the natives in Africa, it was economically it was there was no in fact, there's one of guys which is a former British colonial high commissioner or whatever. like five more years to give them.  And it's until people were liberated from um from the French. Um
A question to go on your colonial powers and final years or whatever. Something that happened in the 19th century when uh, they were being colonized. Um, so again this is a kind of a repeating just what has been mentioned. Um  this is what has been mentioned. Um, step system with the guided India, India and Vietnam, very similar things um in Africa.  Uh lots of coups happened in the wake of independence because many of these countries um they are they're ruled kind of separately by ethnic groups and so you have ethnic violence breaking out. Five minutes left. The next time I see you in class. We will be doing this.
