So, how did World War I inspire national movements and the trouble for change in the colonized world? Kind of It is a small step that relates to the decolonization that happened after World War II. So essentially, my question is, how did World War I inspire the process that would lead to decolonization? Uh, I'm going to go over a couple of like data points and facts you might have not heard about, but if you're oh, I remember my teacher taught about this, then you don't need to. So some things that happened in World War I that played a role in the decolonization process. There's a bunch of that, colonial soldier. There were a large number of non-white soldiers that fought for their colonial masters in World War I. Some of them joined willingly, like they're like, yeah, I'll go fight for you. Or some of them were forced. They were They were um, like they didn't have a choice. And I'm going to show you some examples and some facts that support that. I'll take your question and like after I finish kind of explain all this. Um, for the French So, Britain and France kind of the two biggest colonial powers at the start of World War I. The two countries with the most colonial territories, also the two that utilized the most colonial troops. France um, the French forced their colonial subjects to, especially in Africa, to fight in the war for them. Uh, whereas Britain more so targeted specific groups of people within their colonial empires to um, consent into the British army. Um, the British would recruit in very heavily uneducated illiterate um villagers and communities of their India's colony. Um, and that is seen in some of the records of like soldier uh enlistments. For example, in the region that is uh called the Punjab region that now today is part of modern India and a little part of Pakistan. Uh, there is British, uh, according to the British and other records found, no more than Punjabi's that area were illiterate. meaning they could've been right. Um, and it comes from the uh the the British national archives where um recruiting officers in the British military, they do things like the like they targeted the Punjab area of their Indian colony because the people were loyal and less likely to be attached to the colonial leaders. Look them, they won't go into the British army or do the um, like, "Oh, is it this way?" Or, "Oh, the government's trying to make all this for the, like oppression or whatever." And so, this is some data collected by modern day historians that like uh number of non-colonial or non-white troops that contributed to the French and the British um, military during World War I. Um, the French uh utilized a lot of their African colonial troops. Uh, these are soldiers that were actually allowed to fight with the French like, hold the weapon, these are uh uh individuals that were recruited or restricted, who were forced to go. Um, and they were used as laborers. There was a huge debate during World War I why Western European colonial powers when they used their colonial troops, should we give these people that the fear is, what if they turned their gun upon us? And so, as you can see, there is a large group of people that are um used as laborers. Same thing with the British. Um, they, the largest non-European groups of people that served in World War I were people of Indian descent or people from the British Indian colony, and I am saying the British Indian colony because today it makes up It is like three different countries, modern day countries of India, Pakistan, and Bangladesh. And if you want to like get even more technical, the British raj, the British Indian colony at one point, also including Burma, um which is called, the country of Myanmar. And so you have 1.5 million Indian troops, um both combat and both that are given tasks to fight in the trenches or non-combatant roles, which are laborers or uh some of the jobs that they are forced to do carry supplies in the trenches. Um, ring it is not fun. And many of those laborers and um, soldiers are people carrying supplies. They are not treated very kindly, do not get good uh supplies. Many of them died from malnutrition and disease. Um, and then the British also utilized a large number of uh people from their colonies as as laborers. So did the French. Um, and I put Chinese laborers down here because China technically wasn't colonized by any country, but remember China fell under the sphere of influence of various Western countries. Um, and so to a certain extent, Britain played a huge role in controlling portions of China through those unequal treaties. So you have 2,000 Chinese laborers that uh working in the Western front uh world war one. Here is um uh the primary source, the recollection of a Senegalese, which is West African, um a person from Senegal, West Africa, who was in the colony of the French talk about how it's not not all these people were told that they want to do it and they're going to try to get back to Europe. Um, and this is per the Senegalese, French African, He had to young men of his village, when the chief did Canton, Canton, paid to take soldiers, but they used the uh they used to arrest their fathers uh if they did not come back. And so, it's literally saying, young men are kind of forced to join into the French military army to fight for the French, and so they didn't want to do that, some of the young men in his village fled, but then they just arrested their fathers. Um, often their mothers used to say to their sons, when they returned from the countryside from, "You know that your name has been written down by the Chief de Canton. And yet you ran away, and now your father has been arrested and you're going to be taken to prison. So go and enter the army." And often, they used to go and enter the army so that their fathers would be released. Uh, the Chief de Canton also from the French. The way they implemented the colonial rule is indirect. They would work with um local leaders, and the local leaders had to report and do their bidding, and if they don't like the local leaders, they replace them with another local leader that's friendly to the French. It's like the village chief, it's like, "You, you, you, you, you, all young, you're all gonna enlist in the French army to go fight for the French on the Western front." And then if you were a young lad and you're like, "Yeah, I'll go fight there and die on the Western front." You fight. They arrest your father, and the only way that uh your father can get out of prison is if you go. Um, would writing out the exact numbers on the helpful for like a time trial or something? I might want to know that a large number of uh colonial soldiers, um are people from the colonies were participants of World War I either like combatants or soldiers who fought or the other combatants or they were laborers. Many of them joined willingly and many of them were forced. Yes, what is your question? Um, I was just going to say, kind of relating back to the like, "White man's right" and like and how Europeans thought themselves as better than the rest of the world. I was um, one thing that my teacher said last year was that uh um European nations had kind of thought that um these colonial soldiers shouldn't have the right to kill the white men, and then they kind of stopped their like um use of colonial soldiers a bit more towards the end of World War I. Um, I'm not sure about stopping using it, but they definitely kind of decentralized all the colonial soldiers during the interwar years, right? They're like, "Oh, we don't need you anymore. We don't really need you to be armed," basically. Because they had that idea because the British the British called back to the 1850s, when the both buildings happened. So, yes, to there is a lot of racism that happens in World War I so many soldiers. Um, there is documentation of British and French officials literally saying, "These people are going to help us fight because they are racially because they are from like um, that's what we're talking about." The the ethics of jobs people from uh, um what's modern day like, for Pakistan, uh, the British saw them as the right British for someone, we were so and we would be good fighters. And then searching people from like Africa, the British and the French would look at them as um, I can't remember the exact term, but it's very like, "They're so done and ignorant," or they were doing what they're doing and then many people were showing to join into the army to fight in the war. They are still treated as uh inferior to us. Yeah, another question I had is In the article we read like recently, it said that uh veterans from World War II came back um in hopes of getting some reward to their like fight for their colonizers, and when they did see the often they became anti-colonial leaders, and then fought for independence. Would that happen for veterans that came from World War I as well? Yes. Sure. World War II just kind of accelerated that anger like, "We fought two wars now for you colonial masters, why aren't you being kind to us?" But World War I does set this like, "Hey, we fought for you," and um, some of the, there are some of the earlier decolonization movements in Asia like India uh will come out as like the at the end of World War I, really like the in the Europeans, they're just like us. They die like us, they bleed like us. They are not they shouldn't appear and they're not here today. Who died in the trenches with them, who helped them, and yet when we return, we get nothing. And we are still not seen as people to them. We are going to fight for our independence for our freedom. Um, last year, you probably totally have to talk about one of these two major movements, the teachings. Um, World Wilson to keep force. Is that what the the other people calling you, right? And the rest of that religion talking about you should know that right? There's a whole unit, you read Animal Farm, right? So I want you to think about these two questions. I want you to talk with your tablemates there. Um, recall what what was Wilson's 14 points? Don't look up, don't look it up right now. I just really, what is it? And what do you think it would help tear up the imperial regimes within Europe? And start to make you think about what is it called. Now, what is it called more outside of Europe. What's the 14 points and also the Russian Revolution? How did these two major events and um, policy shift the world's colonized people or oppressed people and and shift it from leading to the end of imperial- You can think these comments maybe you can put them in this question but maybe it's come up what was what was the Russian Revolution? How did it impact Europe? How did it impact the Western world? You have about one minute with your tablemates. You're talking, you're not typing, you're not googling anything. I need you to recall. So, either talk about this question or talk about the two events in the nation called on the two bigs. 14 points and Lenny in Russia. How memorizing it's pro. The guys, whatever the 14 points. Oh my goodness.  Like it like it in Pakistan and Punjab and Pakistan were. I can't be expecting us to memorize this. We've got that. Well, that time it was it was, because like back then I think it was like that I I don't know. Yeah, but you know. No, but she said in modern day, what in Pakistan and the Indian state of Punjab. Really? Yes. Where should we ask this? No, what we just show no. I like her I like her music. But it's just invaded. Yeah. I know. Well that's all I want to say. Look how big the state. The people from there are a lot of fun. Wait, I also want to share, like, they invested so much into promoting colonialism, right? I mean, if you guys spoke, they're like people support like so it's like difficult, like in Kashmir, the people support like the yes, so that's why they can't this sure.  I don't think this is very long. Now, Um, 14 or 14 points is a the speech given. If many of you when I walked by, had no idea what it is, so you might want to take some notes. You want to teach you. It is not the Treaty of Versailles, it does not blame Germany. Uh, Woodrow Wilson, if you were not familiar, was the president of the United States during World War I and in the end, Wilson's speech listed out 14 like things that he knew should kind of be what the the global the global community should do what the united nations. Unlike Britain and France, he did not have a secret for March when it came to Germany. Um, his speech is filled with core values and ideas that come out of the 14 points um in national self-determination. So, if anything, you need to know, global 14 points in national self-determination. We advocate for national self-determination. Um, in Canada the people in Europe. The 14 points specifically talked about certain liberty within the people and how they should have national self-determination. Um, does not talk about all European people, but it's broad and that's right, and individual of the colonized world in Asia and Africa, who like, "Okay, what about us?" You talk about national self-determination. What about us? You know? If you have such good memories. If you could you just have um history, how he was the president that showed to the nation and white house. He's kind of saying, they are in order to speak to the how about how they are in the world and from the people of. People who  So, you have so much communism, right? That's one of the most one of the most significant in time. You have a Russian Revolution, which political ideology being out in the Russian Revolution? Communism. And what is communism? Equality, economic, social, equality. It disrupts the whole like um, everything that people knew was the norm, right? And then Russians overthrew a king, they overthrew the system, the political, social, and economic system within their country and tried to implement the Marxist idea of this utopia where everybody is equal and everybody is working together. That is both going to have an huge impact inside and outside of Europe. Imperial regimes in Europe collapse, because of Wilson's, and 14 points, and they establish their own nations. Uh, the Lenin revolution inspires other groups of people to like, "Hey, we can be communists, like communism's not shit that. We kind of like what he's doing. He killed this terrible thing, he was useless, like it was the second. Um, and that's also what inspired and motivated people from outside of Europe. In the interwar years, there were major um conflicts and movements that started the decolonization process. Think of some examples, and we are going to look closely into India, we will briefly talk about Vietnam um, and kind of in this early year, you will talk more about Vietnam when you get to US history, because the the US the United States gets more involved into a much more complicated conflict with Vietnam. But um Ireland, and Morocco also has major uh decolonization movements and conflicts. Ireland is what some historians call Britain's first colony. You didn't know that. Some of you try to study the Irish. A little bit, the great hunger. A little bit. Especially Ireland, generally speaking, is the first British colony, right? Um, and in the in 1916, you have things getting more violent as Irish people began to live a free system that they felt was very prejudiced towards them. Um, and that was implemented each in their country for hundreds and hundreds of years. Um, and it culminated in violent,
