Almost everybody gets to have this hand on it. Now, the um, as first the semester, at the beginning, I said factoring, trinomial is going to be almost like a required, uh, multiplication table for this course. Now second semester unit circle is. You really have to know how to generate unit circle and then I give you this, uh, you know, the sine and cosine value. You have to know how to produce the answers. And it's, uh, not only for this semester, it is ongoing the rest of your mathematics. You as you progress, okay? So, uh, be aware, okay? Uh, because of that, uh, it's going to be pretty easy quiz. I guess, right? And I just wanted to, I know you have done it in algebra too, but I I am double checking it because you've got to remember it, every single uh, special, you know, the values of a triangle, okay? And then, uh, next Friday, we have um, just a regular quiz, and then um Friday, uh, February 14th is a unit exam. uh, who uh, I don't know why this is. Okay, so I need to just and, all right. Uh, now, uh, I prefer pushing this exam to Monday so that uh, I think 14th is Valentine's Day, right? But day,  Skyline has a tradition delivering songs and so I think it's kind of fun for students to have that kind of a moment. So let's see if we can push our, um, if you don't care, maybe we can still take on Friday, but just, you know, just fine, okay? Okay, anything else, guys, in terms of a questions, second semester will be trigonometry, all very going in depth, and then, uh, probability statistics. That's the, you know, major things in the second semester. Okay. So, Alright. So, take this out, guys. All right. So, um, today's material is totally relevant for SAT as well. This topic always shows up in SAT. Now, you got to memorize here special triangle ratio. 1, 2, 3 but root 3, okay? And then it's a 60, a 30, 60, 90. Okay? And then, uh, 45, 45, triangle. It will be 1, 1, 2 but it's root 3. Root root 2. 1, 1, 2 but it's root 2. So these are the ratio must be remembered and also everybody knows since geometry and, uh, so Ka- Toa, right? Okay, so, uh, today we're gonna do exercise, how to use it. Uh, these three and four are mostly, you know, if we have a question, it will be three or four and then number one and two is a, uh, just you know, drilling how to do it. So, uh, if it's uh, opposite side of 30 is, uh, nine, okay? And then this is a 60 degree, so therefore, um, the x will be equal to, this is x you know this, so it's 9 root 3 and yards. So you should be able to produce that answer. And then, it will be 1, 1, and the root 2 ratio, so y will be uh, 20 inches and then uh x will be 20 root 2 inches, okay? Uh, I have to say this is an algebra 2 level, okay? And the three is uh, uh, I mean, I will be asking now here 30 is x, here, uh, opposite of 30 is x, uh, there therefore, uh, 60 opposite of the 60 is, uh, root uh, 15. So, I'm going to say 15 = root 3 x, okay? So x will be equal to 15/root 3. Uh, therefore, 15 root 3 over 3. That's a 5 root 3 and it does not have a unit, so that's going to be our answer. Okay? And because of that, y is 2 times, uh, the x, so it's going to be 10 2 times uh, root 3, 5 root 3 will be 10, root 3 is going to be our answer. Okay? Same idea. Uh, it's a 1, 1, root 2. Therefore, uh, x is going to be equal to, um, x will be uh, 7, sorry. Uh, well, I can say, uh, root, root 2 x = 7, right? So, therefore, x will be 7/root 2, and therefore, 7 root 2 over 2 is our final answer for, uh, x here and then y is the same value and then you say 7 root 2 over 2, that's y as well. Okay? Okay. So, uh, potentially a best problem is a number two, uh, numbers 3 and 4. The others are just a drill. To be honest, from number 5 to through 10 is a geometry problem. But I want you exercise how to do it because, uh, you needed to refresh how to use So-ca-toa and then, uh, also you need to refresh how to use a calculator. So, when I uh start doing real problem solving, you know exactly what to do. Okay? So, you need a calculator, either uh Inspire or TI 84. Okay? So, um, if you are using a calculator page 47, right? Now, um, TI 84, okay? Uh, you change mode from number 5 through 10 here, we're all going to do in degree more. And change into degree, all right? Now, uh, if you are using Inspire, okay, uh, let's see, uh, can I re-re-barf, yeah? Oh, is my mind too? Yeah, my calculator is auto saving. I mean, I needed to come to, yeah. Okay, thank you so much. Okay. So, Inspire, please listen up, guys. Uh, I find the Inspire student, using Inspire, make uh, the most mistake with the mode here. So, when you start the new document here, okay? So you're going to the new document, all right? I wonder if it's low battery too. Let's see what happens here. Okay. Okay. So, uh, when you go to the new document here, always, all right? Always you need to uh, be, have a document setting. Every time you open new screen Inspire, you have to document setting, because it does not save before you. Okay? The setting and then number two setting and see it's in radian. We need to change it to degree. Okay, so degree. Again, if you open new screen, uh, there's no guarantee because you changed the one document in degrees, the next document will be also in degrees. There's no guarantee. Can you remember that? And, uh, I I guess that's just the nature of Inspire, and then said, but uh TI 84 once you changed it, it stays as, uh, you know, the degrees until you change it again. All right?  I think there's a button to like make it default. Like there's a default button. Oh it says default, but when you open new document, I think that default is, uh, not a people, but that's how I remember. I I, I that's uh, you know, because I have a saying, uh, just automatically go back to radians. okay? Yeah, just be careful. Okay? All right guys, so these will come uh 5 to 10, all right? And, uh, with your team, I mean, uh, elbow partner there, and then complete it. Now, um sometimes, well, to be honest again, I don't put this into exam. However, you have to know how to do it because you know how, when I start doing advance problem solving, okay? Okay. Yeah. Yeah. I know. So, so, uh, 10.8 for six. I mean I think, I think you said I've done a mistake. Is there a latest? Are you sure it's new? No, it's already. Yeah. Oh, okay. Then I need to replace it. Yeah. Okay. I thought I make a mistake. Okay. Okay. Okay. Is it a 6 Yeah. So, are you doing 6? Yeah.
