h here. It's the last page of the IB exit tickets. If you are doing re-take in class, then these the exits you've got to do at home and then submit it. Doesn't make sense? It's a it's another optional. We have to uh if it's going to turn it, so you either in class or at home. okay? Anybody have questions? Yes. Um, for the test, is it going to be um, like pretty much the same questions that I would let you. Yeah. That's why I am I put it up uh many classes, so I am going to plan this. Okay? All right guys. So, uh can you please end the class we are going to have a, okay? Oh, shit. If you do not have a take it, make a good note in your uh notebook, okay? So, The game of dice. Adam begins by rolling a single die. That means uh if he doesn't  five. Okay? So, there are six numbers, so that means that uh he has a chance of winning is one out of six, right? And then uh if he doesn't win, then he gives the dice pass uh the die.  Daniel.  Daniel rolls even numbers, that means that uh even numbers, which means 2, 4, 6. So, he's a chance of winning is uh probability of 1/2.  Okay. So, then until somebody to win.  Okay? So, we need to draw a tree diagram.  Okay? So, the first die, okay? Uh Adam wins is one-sixth. Okay? Adam doesn't win is going to be five-sixths, okay? So when Adam doesn't win, uh then Daniel plays, okay? So Daniel plays, and then Daniel wins the winning is 2, 4, 6 out of six number, so it will be a 1/2, and Daniel is a done winning, right? However, uh the chance if Daniel doesn't win, it's also 1/2, right? Because it will be 1, 3, 5. So then if Daniel doesn't win and then Adam will have a chance again to play. So, the Adam uh second try he wins is a just the in other independent one six, and the chance it he will not win will be again five-sixths. So, then Daniel plays, right? So then Daniel plays again and then Daniel wins the game which will be ending it to 1/2. But, uh he doesn't win, it's going to be also 1/2.  Then Adam has another chance, right? So then, uh Adam plays and Adam wins will be one sixth, and then this will be third trial, okay? And then um he doesn't win, it's a five-sixths and doesn't win and Daniel. And it's going dot-dot-dot-dot-dot. Like that.  So, our goal is it's asking, what is the probability Adam wins on nth roll? That's what the question is, okay? So, I'm going to summarize this tree diagram. So, the first uh the trial, he wins it just 1/6. And then second trial he wins, I'm going to follow tree diagram here, he would follow this tree diagram. Always multiply it. So, it will be uh five-sixths times 1/2 times 1/6. That is you know. chances he will be winning at the second trial. And then, third trial. He will win is, I follow this tree diagram again, and then I need end up here, so I'll follow this tree diagram here, and then this is where it ends, and again, it's all multiplication. So, it's five over six times 1/2 times uh then again five over six, because that's what I have, and then times 1/2 and then he will end up with a one sixth.  So, it's going dot-dot-dot-dot. Now nth, okay? So, uh, notice that I multiplied these, Oh, how I I passed the wrong things right. Sorry. So, sorry, right. I when it be passed. Oh my god. 1/2 and 1/6. I multiply these to 1/6. And then third trial, I multiplied this and this. And these are three, these are all same numbers. So, if I write down, it's a I call it sequences, okay? Sequences, this is a pattern I see. Uh, 1/6, and then multiply this is 5 over 12 times 1/6. Then, 5/12 square times 1/6 and they continue dot-dot-dot, okay? So, uh, I want to express the nth, this is the first, second, third, nth expression will be what? 5/12 to the what? What power? I heard a correct answer. N - 1 times six. So, that is our answer. So, we call this is expression of sequences, and tree diagram, it's like an open-ending probability, that's how we express probability.  So, if we say, what's the Adam a probability Adam will be on ninth term, then I will just put turn it in nine here. So, what's the probability Adam will win 100 terms, then I would correct the 100 here.  Yes. Uh, and for the formula for the nth, it is times one. Oh, oh, you are right, it is Oh, I I thought I wrote times uh one. You are very uh paying attention that is already. Well, I you said Oh, even once, I already said it, but I missed it a long run. Uh, does this make sense to this pattern? Okay? You are going to see on. You're also on exam. So, we have a second, you know. I mean exam practice, okay? Is that clear, guys? Okay. Now. Look at the second part here,  this says what's the probability Adam wins the game. Then means uh we're just in general, pretend this again is going just forever, and what's the probability and uh Adam will win. So, that means that I am going to add all these probabilities. These are you know, probabilities. So, you will say uh probability, uh, n is equal to infinity. You are going to the infinity, okay? So, then you will say, I expressed it as a that sequence series.  Why? Because we do 1/6 plus and 5/12 times 1/6 plus and then 5/12 squared times 1/6 and next one will be three and then dot-dot-dot-dot-dot, right? So, it goes to forever to the infinity, okay? So, then, uh, this is the infinite series he is uh uh n goes to infinity is, going to be A1 divided by 1 minus R.  Stop talking. I will have to raise my voice. It's very tiring. So, A1 over 1 minus R when R is less than 1.  Remember that this formula? So, basically either you have to memorize this formula or in sequences and series a formula is there.  So, you have to look it up, okay? So, therefore, uh this is probability uh Adam wins, okay? Adam wins is going to be following this formula. First term is 1/6 and then uh R is going to be 5/12, right? 1 - 5/12. So, uh the numerator, I will change it to 2/12 over and then you will have a 7/12 and then 12, 12 cancels out, okay? So, uh then you will have 2/7. Is uh, you know, is less than 1/2, so it's not like uh the uh he has the variance, but that's it, okay? Does it make sense, guys? All right. So, sequence series apply. This is that 1 of it was to reduce the events and uh this is probable graphic uh IB tutorial. Okay. So, go to next page. Um, So we are next to guys. Uh, number two, Uh, I think, I'm just going to read the uh see, the reason is that um, this problem comes up uh the next page later here, uh here. And the same problem later. So, this is much better problem than uh question of the case. So, it's the same scenario. So, I want to do number one and two. Uh, number two, only do A and B, okay? Go ahead. Okay. Yes. Um, is the set you said. Are there problems on or are there numbers? Uh, yes. Sometimes they don't think of you. Just just to uh Just two has uh. So, uh hopefully, you found the answer? No? Okay, let's see. One time there. Yeah. Okay. So, you got that? Is two scenarios, right? Uh, either you choose uh you know, uh if you say A or if you say B, and then you have to go from there, okay? All right. Okay. So, I will give you a chance to do number two now. Please don't do C. C is not a very good question. We're going into conditional probability, okay? Do not think of today, thinking, Oh, if you got caught by friends, by chance got, am I going to just throw out of the train, so therefore no longer probability. Now, you have to do, and you will see it, okay? You got caught, and then you pay. You just You just. Yeah. Okay. All right.  Okay, so if you get caught by by the French guys, got caught by one or if you get caught by French guy.  Don't get like. He just got he got.  All right. Okay. I'm going. I was like the. I have it. The answer. You guys got there. Okay, now. So, the goal of these notes is, when we say not A, you know, which area in Venn diagram you have to shade. And now, when we say A union B, you need to know how to shade a you know, uh Venn diagram. Now, when, Two events has no intersection. Then, we called mutually exclusive events. So, uh, when it says, uh, two events are mutually exclusive events, and then you can are doing an exam, you cannot ask what it means, okay? That's exactly A and the C, there's no common events. Like a rainy day and sunny day, there's just no common things in two events. And now, when you see and, then means how many elements in set A. So, there are three of them. So, that's what it means. Is that all clear in notation-wise? Okay? So, um, did I give you enough time to do it? Okay. So then the problem is, is solving all right? So now, let's draw Venn diagram. This is a cross Venn diagram, okay? So There is a. Okay, how many pizzas? Okay. So,  It's a cut. Uh uh. It's got cut. That's condition. Then, it does not say only. It says, cut by French god. Okay? So, uh it's not does not say only that, cut by friends condition.  If it is caught by one or both? Right? That's. Okay. So, uh, they're tree diagram, and it kind of, you know, I I made it for you, so I hope that this is what you got, okay? We kind of meet it, right? Okay? So, uh the uh the probable, I mean the conditional got caught, the probability, to get is these three, you know, the uh condition. It's this the bottom is only one not caught.  You could have one minus 0.8 times 0.7. If you will give you the exact same answer, you add them. That's condition of a cut, right? And then, um the the cut by French god will be, the French Even again, you okay?
So,
