somebody else and is Is this thing with me guys? What has happened in most years is guys Kindness is there is a new sense of dignity and a new sense of self respect. a new negro came into being with a new determination to suffer, to struggle, to sacrifice and even to die if necessary in order to be free. Recognizing the two voices at the documentary as a background. first or the second? recognizing the first and the second voice. second one. It's too American, Too American. American civil rights leader. Second voice is that of Martin Luther King. Um and the first is Malcolm X. So um I don't know if you can remember from one of the earlier uh readings from this unit where uh the decolonization and the Cold War reading. Decolonization in Africa starts to happen at the same time as the civil rights movement in uh the United States. And I'll talk a little bit more about some of the uh Africans and where they get their inspiration from. But so those are the the narration, the voices that they put over the images. That's the voices of um Malcolm X, who is uh a civil rights figure and is kind of seen as more radical than um Martin Luther King. As Martin Luther King takes the approach of a non-violent civil disobedience approach to addressing segregation and really the chirochism prolog that existed in the United States against black Americans versus um Malcolm X and um an approach where he thought about black Americans should perhaps fight back more aggressively against this oppressive system um as with people in Africa and Asia just them for their negative in the European yard. and with the coming to the field that some of the things. Reign has imagined that the touchstone of the post-war world. By the 1950s, colonial war produced a new generation of African nationalist intellectuals and behind them, large urbanized and literate working classes. The were not together and witnessed the power of nationalism. In India, where Jamal Abdul Nasser expelled the British. And in Algeria, where the resistance stood firm in its war of liberation from France. At the same time, the presence of the United Nations, the rise of the civil rights movement in the United States. And an nascent anti-apartheid movement focused the lens of world scrutiny on the last white and spurred on colonized Africa in their for self sovereignty. And what happens to stay by you know, when you wish. Arrangement and by progress and not the whole in his free. In 1957, Ghana became the first self-governing state by transfer of power to Ghana, who is considered the father of African nationalism. It was in part by the United States government experience in the American disc. So the chocking of colony instead of which one. That can yeah and it's going to say to a black people that are just something like that in Africa. In 1958, had inspired others with the vision of a United States of Africa. Men like Leopold Sedor Sengor, who is the first president of the Republic of the Senegal. I mean, but he would walk to freedom war and the Kenyatta in Kenya, men who received colonial education. With the idea of empire increasingly unpalatable to the voting public, European governments had little choice but to work with the nationalists. There was an indifference at this stage towards the empire towards the colonies and I found that really rather depressing. Um, you know, you start to talk about it people are shutting up. Another brink or something. There was just this this idea that that colonialism is is wrong and and needs to be copied off. The pressure for formal decolonization had been building ever since the end of the Second World War. The turning point came on the 3rd of February, 1960. Whether we like it or not. Those nations will come to the physical that, which Prime Minister Harold McMillan delivered a warning shot to the white of apartheid South Africa and a death knell to the colonial venture across the continent. That uh signaled to my mind, the idea that uh the Britain disapproved and the world disapproved of apartheid um and the racism of apartheid, but it didn't necessarily mean that we were giving up on our work in Africa. I didn't think so. In fact, within 10 months of the wind of change speech, Britain surrendered two key British territory. The rate of decolonization when they arrived was breathtaking. And many of them who eventually that was not a change. 1960 was hailed a year of Africa and all the withdrawal of colonial powers continued into the next three decades. And these shows by all of us and it's not energy that the Europeans suddenly realized that the time is given to native of Africa and Asia. Because of the possibility of a large civil war through sub Saharan Africa or the question should have show has to be better to negotiate with nationalist and anti nationalist negotiation movement. Will you go back to the Congo one day? will you go back to the Congo? will you go? Yes, I think so. But no sooner had African nationalists escaped the shackles of colonialism than a new battle for the continent was underway: the Cold War. Back when the colonial idea had most politicians spellbound, the communists had hoisted. And throughout their years of struggle, African nationalists had found a powerful friend in the Soviet Union. And these two great powers America and Russia began to carve up the world between them. Independence became tied up with the Cold War, where uh it mattered which side the president was in terms of this global struggle between Russia and America. And they both tried to organize coops to get their people in and this was very destabilizing. The Congo's Patrice Lumumba was a hard-line nationalist, labeled a communist by America. In the eyes of Russia, Red, and Patrice Lumumba paid off when in 1960 he oversaw the handover of sovereignty from Belgium. He was to become a victim of division and Western Africa. Because militia leaders would control of a mineral rich Katanga province refused to be swallowed up in a wider republic, they quite as a Soviet back. During their own material leases, the US and Belgium supported the rebels. And just three weeks after bringing the country into independence, Lumumba was captured by Katanga militia and tortured and then killed. There is a problem. Con, you have to. And there is the family to do. After is there. After is there. The of what. I'm with you, and you. To the. And one of the most decades, that sort of the initial for you and then very quickly and then the 62. The righteous 17. One is of violence of that is. After another. They couldn't have. You have the same. We specialize what? In the use of. And so on. They have no political in the security of the country. So you have the economy of new leadership for only government but for the. Many leaders of states of Africa left with the legacy of and the challenge of stability which soon consumed by intense power struggles. In many cases militia bands overran the national figures. But in the post-colonial independence there were too successful, and many more failed ones. In colonial British territory what we're apart by that be completed and as the dark side of that went to light. And the problems with independence when it came was that the colonial powers hadn't more Nigeria, Nigerians as Nigerians, the Yoruba's house of people or Yaruba or people or Igbo people and Kenyan's as Kenyans or. And suddenly they all and um, very quickly the politicians actually look to their own people for their political power base. And they and politics became very ethnocized.  make that connection to that uh when we talked about national identity, it's a related concept and national identity being created out of anti-colonial movements and that national identity is unifying, the fight against colonization, but at the same time, it can break down and you saw that in the Indian independence movement with the unity and then the kind of crumbling of that Indian uh the which two major of various uh religious groups. In Africa, you have the same colonial policy of um divide and rule and so they were ruling people by their ethnic groups and some places they learned that they created it up. Um and so after independence, people are kind of in their groups and that the resentment and the anger is more of a boil up and there's a lot of ethnic conflict, violence, ethnic conflicts that were erupted in Africa. The cruelty against which harmed the year by hundreds of thousands, 2 million people, are also died in the ethnic in South African over 30 years of conflict. South Africa 1916. Um they they left from a political uh that was already in that point to be either against itself. They had a system where chiefs or the kings run things and just provide to districts officers. In Western Nigeria as a result the reason cause where building churches where built and very quickly and there is an educated elites um emerged. Um in the north, again with the same system, the chiefs or the kings are okay, accept you other political power. okay. Just step me, just get out of the business or so things and and so they are most part in the north, they will not allow churches as for Muslims. The consequence of that later was that they had an imbalance between the north and the south and then and there was a civil war. But elsewhere, the problem wasn't the great decolonization, but the lack of it. France redefined its relationship with its African colony to become the unseen hand in national affairs. Quietly, French control was going underground. The French never really left the moment of independence. For many years afterwards, if you went to the  Ministry in France, there would be a Frenchman uh signing the checks, doing the canvas, reporting to Paris. In 2006, President Sarkozy promised a cleaner of the French foothold in Africa, no more secrets, real independence. But for still there are celebrations in Paris this year, said the keen message that they remain as closely interested in the country's affairs as they ever were. Ever since independence, domination of resources had continued to fuel violence in many states, with former Belgian Congo still mired in a vicious cycle of conflict over its mine. African rulers, foreign multinationals, and governments have continued to strike deals, to plunder commodities, and help cripple national economies already set back by the colonial experience. As well as in the 19th century, the Europeans just went in and enslaved people and forced them to dig, and and took it all for themselves. I think these days there's a complicity between the the rulers of Africa and Western companies and the middle of the mines in whichever country um you're you're talking about that we needed somebody to bring in the uh the personnel and the equipment to to dig out the minerals. Um to employ people to continue to dig out the minerals, to maintain the place outside investment. Then, as now, is terribly important. The continuing diversion of minerals isn't the only exploitative practice. Today, Africa is the largest recipient of external aid in the world, a continent where hard the population survive on less than a dollar a day. But for every dollar coming in, $10 are lost through illegal capital flight out. 370 billion dollar has left Africa between 2000 2008, or less than illegally. Um and much of that is going into tax havens owned by European countries, Britain in particular. Um and certainly these young people of Africa haven't benefited from this this last decade which has been um a very profitable for Africa, looking at But when you go and you see for whatever. On a shadow financial system built under the worst. Foreign companies and multinationals operating in Africa are slowly paying tax. Anonymous trust accounts and foundations allow the trap to get trade is fighting all the check. Since 1970, an estimated $854 billion dollars has been lost. Enough to wipe out external debt and provide with 600 million more for development. The financial rewards can be traced back to those countries proudly being out the independent Africa was aimed. A striking parallel to the colonial story. Also, according to the past, China is entering the scene. Once monopolized by Europe. Opening up options for African commerce. Which causes of the decolonization is to perform there. China has now come to scenario for fighting, um for contracts and for rights um to explore natural resources, with European countries. It's China's demand for African resources which has pushed their prices globally, that's actually being very good for Africa. But whether African governments are really taking the best advantage of this one of opportunity to sell where some of their soil. is I'm not sure why people do over these out. This is a moment to build new infrastructure, to educate people, to bring health um to that beautiful family. I'm not sure that that is being done as effectively as it might be.  Well, Cruis's United States of Africa may never have materialize. Africa today does have successful, right? But Tswana, where diamond revenue is private development, is a multi-party government. And Senegal, where democracy, stability, and freedom have characterized for the past 50 years of self. I think we can be very confident about the future of Africa. Africa is pioneers education, it is pioneers um modernity. Um it is also becoming more and more democratic. It will receive and manage resources. And make resources strength of character. I can believe a lot in the new professional classes. These are not the elites of of Africa. These are world class professionals. They've got an uphill struggle, but I think Africa may have turned the corner. heritage of empire or nationhood. For over a century now, the world's relationship with Africa has been built on disparity. Africa's more, has helped, and pride to transform with technology, communication, and business made elsewhere. But by safeguarding natural riches, prioritizing national interest, and trading and relevant work will tell whether the next chapter of decades could break the cycles of the past and finally bring real independence. In the face of colonialism, there is a responsibility for the African. We say for 50 years, the school has not been enough. The 50 years are not enough. 50 years have not enough. To resist to this responsibility. And the responsibility of the African leadership. And the natural born into Africa is an opportunity for more tomorrow and this.
