If you are qualified to retake, and next Wednesday, uh, let's arrange so that you will be catching up. Does everybody understand the retake requirement, right? Okay. When we sign up, okay. So, I will be reminding you uh again, all right. So, please find the packets uh over the find the pair uh Ferris wheel problem. So, okay, guys, so let's go over uh this problem uh together. I noticed some of you have but some major's and progress. Some of you didn't. So, I'm going to make sure that we are all in same uh pace. All right. Okay. So, this problem is describing from bottom to the top of the wheel, it's going to be uh 43 feet. Okay? And then, uh diameter of this wheel is 40 feet. Okay? That means from ground to the bottom of the wheel is going to be 43 minus uh 40, therefore 3 feet, right? And then, it takes uh one full revolution every 8 seconds. That means the period is going to be equal to eight second. So, to model this problem, we're going to use a uh sinusoidal especially cosine equation. So, we're going to say, let's change this uh lowercase H to be capital H, so that we do not mix up with the phase shift to H, okay? So, we're going to use H of T equal to cos uh A times cosine and then 2 pi divide by period and then X, in this case actually, it's T, because T is a time, T minus H and then plus K. We're going to to use this form of equation modeling the situation. So, uh we will say H is going to be height, okay? Height which will be unit would be fit. And then, T will be time. Time is going to be in second. Now, we calculated A amplitude and the maximum minus minimum divided by two, which means the max height minus minimum height divide by two, in this case, 43 is the maximum height, and then, minimum height is uh three because of ground to bottom of the hill is a 3 feet, and then, divide by two, which is going to be 40 divided by two, which will be 20 feet. That's the amplitude. Now, K is axis, right? Vertical shift, and there's calculated by max plus minimum divide by two. So, we're going to say again, 43 plus three, divide by two, which is going to be 23. Now, there's another way to determine amplitude and the axis, looking at this diagram here, that uh from middle line, which is a center of the wheel to the uh top of the wheel, which will be basically radius. Radius is going to be amplitude, right? And then, axis will be from ground to the center of the wheel, which will be three plus radius is a 20, so 23 is going to be axis. So, you do not have to use this formula, and you can look at the diagram, also determine, you know, what is A and the what is the K value, okay? Now, the most importantly, we needed to know how to determine phase shift to H, right? So, it's a problem is describing, it takes three second to reach to the top, and this top maximum value T, which is a 3 seconds it take there, that will be equal to phase shift, which is equal to H, okay? So, we have all the values we need for the equation, okay? A, amplitude, and also period to uh 8 seconds, and also phase shift three, and then K, which is axis. So, uh I'm going to summarize our equation, H of T is equal to 20 cosine and 2 pi divided by period, which is 8, and then T minus three, phase shift, and plus K, which is axis. So, I'm going to box our finer answers. Okay? Is that clear guys, right? Okay. So, now, B is asking, how high above the ground, basically, it's asking, what is H value? Right? The height, and the uh after eight seconds. So, that means T equal to nine, I mean, sorry, not eight, 9 seconds. All right? So, I'm going to uh plug it in nine seconds directly to this equation. So, H of nine is equal to 20 cosine. So, 2 pi over eight, I'm going to simplify to be pi over four, so, nine minus three, and then plus 23. And I will be entering, you will be entering this directly in your calculator, and when you do computation, what mode does it need to be? It needed to be radian mode, right? It got to be radian mode. Why? Because it's mixing with the time, and also, that that's, you know, the uh period to be eight seconds, therefore, it got to be radian mode. So, uh I'm going to give you a time, enter this in your calculator. It is important practice, practice, all right? So, all right. If you are using Inspire, every time you open new calculator screen, you got to check what's the mode. And then, if you use the TI 84, okay? Then, uh once you changed that your mode, all right? In radian mode, and you should be okay. And now, I strongly that once you change the mode, you go to the screen, and then it should be stay as a radian mode, all right? Now, I strongly recommend write it out, and then enter in your calculator. So, I'm waiting somebody to uh share their answer if you entered in your calculator. Anybody? Yes. 23 exact, right? So, that will be 23 feet. I'm going to give you a little bit of time to confirm. Okay? If you have issue with the use of a calculator, uh, please make sure that I uh ask your elbow partner or myself to help you, so that you would know uh use of a calculator, because this unit is calculator allowed, and a lot of this computation is involved with uh use of a calculator, technology use. Okay? 20, cosine parenthesis, parenthesis, right? And then sometimes using parenthesis pi over four is also helpful. Yeah. Okay. If you got that, can I see thumbs up, guys? All right. Beautiful, beautiful. Yes. Good job. All right. So, now, uh move on to the C. I'm going to show you how to solve the C, two methods. And number one, graphically. Oh, I kind of noticed some of you are still working on it. Let's wait a little bit. You got it? 23? Everybody in the? Okay. So, now graphically, all right. So, uh, when it says graphically, must show the graph. So, uh I'm going to sketch the graph. So, open your calculator, type up the equation, cosine, all right? Uh, pi over four. I usually uh put the pi over four around the, you know, I put the parenthesis and then X minus three, and then plus 23, okay? Inspire, you wanted to make sure that graphing screen and check setting, your mode got to be radian. All right? Again, Inspire, every time you open new screen, you want to check what's the mode. Now, when you are graphing this, you expect to know how to make appropriate window, okay? So, X got to be, period is eight seconds. So, you wanted to see at least two, you know, two and a half periods, right? So, you're going to say 0 to the maybe uh three times eight, so it's 25 at least. So, maybe three period, and then Y, maximum is 43. Therefore, window needed to be 0 to the at least 45, or so, I'm going to to do 50, all right? So, uh the graphical wise, you have to have a knowledge how to set window, okay? So, then uh you hit the graph here, all right? I'm going to erase the 20 for now, okay? So, this is the graph you should see. Okay? If you do not see this, there is a possibility of two problem. One, you did not set the window right. Second, it's another possibilities, you are in the wrong mode. If you are in degree mode, you might be just to see the just the straight line, something like that, okay? So, change the mode. All right. So, I'm going to to sketch the graph because it's required to uh as a problem solving, all right? And the sketching graph is appropriate. I do not expect such as, you know, uh put the exact scales, okay? So, I'm going to say the top uh axis is 50, and then my window is going up to the about 25. Okay? So, this is T, this is H. All right. Then, we're going to go Y equal to second equation to be uh 20, because that we wanted to know uh where that's equation Y1, Y2, intersect when it's 20. So, uh that again, uh you graph, okay? So, I am going to sketch here, uh Y equal to 20. Y equal 20. Now, problem is asking uh how long it take uh for you to be 20 feet above the ground, second time. Then means, we are looking for Y equal 20 intersect with the original graph, second time. So, this is the first time, first time, and this is the second time. I hope that makes sense? So, go uh use the intersecting feature in your calculator, find the second time intersection. Anybody can share the answer? T equal to? I heard that. 5.19 second in three significant figure. Okay? All right. I recommend the practice and uh you are very capable and it's a not harder to find these values. Okay, intersection. All right. I'm going into second methodology, algebraically, okay? Algebraically means that uh you do not need to show both ways, just to choose one. And algebraically, you say 20 equal to your equation, to uh 20 uh cosine, and then pi over four and T minus three, and plus 23, you're looking for T, okay? First step, take away 23 both side. So, then you have negative three equal to 20 cosine pi over four T minus three, okay? Are we all following, guys? All right. Then, what's the next step? We're going to divide both sides by 20. Okay? Then, we will put the inverse sign, which is arc cosine both sides, so cosine goes away, then isolate T, final answer T will be equal to arc cosine negative three over 20 times reciprocal pi over four, so we have a four times four over pi, four times divided by pi, and then negative three needed to be added. So, the other side will be plus three. So, you needed to enter this in your calculator, and please check, when you did enter this in your calculator with radian mode, you should have okay, I'm waiting. You got the answer already? No? Are you trying it out, please? Yeah, okay. So, let's see anybody uh who got the answer? I'm waiting. Yes, again? 5.192, and therefore, three significant figure, and second. Now, yes. That is excellent question. I was waiting somebody ask that, okay? So, how do we know this is not first time intersection, it's a second time intersection? Anybody has some insightful thought? Share the idea. How do we know this is the second time intersection? Okay. So, here is how uh we identify. Period was eight seconds, right? So, between second intersection, first intersection, what's the time difference? Four. Half of the period. So, when you subtract four and you gets a 1.19. So, 1.19 is a first intersection, and then second intersection will be 5.1 uh 5.19. Now, if we subtract half a period, T is a negative value, then we know that is a first intersection. Doesn't make sense? Because we cannot have a negative, you know, time, right? So, does I hope it makes sense, right? So, if I ask you, what is the third intersection, without actually doing uh doing tracing, what would be the time? 9.19. You will be adding another four seconds. So, every four seconds, there is just the 20 feet height, half of the period. Doesn't make sense? So, that was a really excellent question, and without that uh, you know, question, I would not discussed that, and so which is great. Okay. So, I want you guys go in, find that, all right? Uh this next problem is going to be homework, guys, uh let's see, 300 uh let's see that was, I'm I'm looking for that problem here. Okay, it is going to be 373. Okay? I'm going to to put this uh a little bit zoom in, all right. Okay. Practice number six A and B right now. Okay. It's your time to practice. Okay. All right. It needed to be done in your notebook. Practice it. So, there are uh students, because I didn't want to put the name, any student. You guys are talking. I couldn't call out your name, because it was recording. I supposed not to. Come on. You guys are you lucky guys. I almost called the you know, run, but I couldn't. It's because I'm supposed not to have a student name in it. Okay. All right. Stop it. Thank you. Okay. All right. Guys, practice it, okay? Guys, all right. You know, that's a something I'm not allowed. I mean, you can talk, but I can I can rephrase your saying, but I cannot name the person. Yeah, because that's that's one thing I cannot put the name in it. Yeah. I fix the. Yeah. So, during my first period, I called student name all the time. So, just in case if I ever, you know, call out the student name, we need to edit it out. Yeah. Okay. Are you doing, okay? Oh, yeah. Okay. Are you a little bit tired? Yeah. You're just putting too much effort. Okay, just So, uh, you failed the turning in these assignments. Oh, I need to show you. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Make sure you do it, I still grading it. Yeah, okay. All right. Just making sure. These are practices important, guys, because I know it will be assessed, okay? Uh, one of the half angle identity, and then another like uh additional identity, okay? So, let me phrase it again. You can see it right now, right? Okay.
