If you are qualified to retake and next Wednesday, uh, let's arrange so that you will be catching up. Is everybody understand the retake, uh, requirement, right? Okay. when we sign up, okay. So I will be reminding you, uh, again. All right. So please find the packets uh over the find the fair, uh, Ferris wheel problem. So, okay, guys. So, let's go over, uh, this problem together. I noticed that some of you have some major some progress. Some of you didn't, so I'm going to make sure that we are all in same, uh, pace. All right. Okay. So, this problem is describing from bottom to the top over the wheel is going to be uh, 43 ft. Okay? And then, uh, diameter of this wheel is 40 ft. Okay? That means from ground to the bottom of the wheel is going to be 43 minus uh, 40, therefore 3 ft, right? And then it takes one full revolution every 8 seconds. That means the period is going to be equal to 8 seconds. So, to model this problem, we're going to use a sinusoidal, especially cosine equation. So, we're going to say, let's change this lower case H to be capital H, so that we do not mix up with the phase shift H, okay? So, we're going to use H of T equal to cos, uh, A times cosine and then 2 pi divided by period, and then X, in this case actually it's T, because T is a time, T minus H and then plus K. We're going to use this form of equation modeling the situation. So, uh, we will say H is going to be height, okay? Height, which will be unit will be feet. And then T will be time. Time is going to be in seconds. Now, we calculated A amplitude and the maximum minus minimum divided by two, which means max height minus minimum height divided by two. In this case 43 is the maximum height and then, minimum height is three, because ground to bottom of the hill is three feet and then divide by two, which is going to be 40 / 2, which will be 20 ft. That's the amplitude. Now, K is axis, right? Vertical shift. And it is calculated by max plus minimum / 2. So we're going to say, again, 43 + 3 / 2, which is going to be 23. Now, there's another way to determine amplitude and axis. Looking at this diagram here, that from middle line, which is a center of the wheel to the, uh, top of the wheel, which will be basically radius. Radius is going to be amplitude, right? And then, axis will be from ground to the center of the wheel, which will be 3 plus radius is 20. So 23 is going to be axis. So you do not have to use this formula and you can look at the diagram also determine, you know, what is a A and what is K value. Okay? Now, the most importantly, we needed to know how to determine phase shift H, right? So, it's a problem is describing, it takes 3 seconds to reach to the top. And this top maximum value T, which is 3 seconds take there, that will be equal to phase shift, which is equal to H, okay? So, we have all the values we need for the equation, okay? A, amplitude, and also period to 8 seconds, and also phase shift to 3, and then K, which is axis. So, uh, I'm going to summarize our equation, H of T is equal to 20, cosine and 2 pi divided by period, which is 8, and then T minus 3, phase shift, and plus K, which is axis. So, I'm going to box our final answers. Okay? Is that clear, guys? Right? Okay. So now, B is asking how high above the ground, basically it's asking what is H value, right? The height, and the, uh, after 9 seconds, so that means T equal to, 9, I mean sorry, not 8, 9 seconds. All right. So I'm going to uh, plug it in 9 seconds directly to this equation. So H of 9 is equal to 20 cosine. So 2 pi / 8, I'm going to simplify to be pi over 4. So 9 - 3 and then plus 23. And I will be entering, you will be entering this directly in your calculator. And when you do computation, what mode does it need to be? It needed to be radian mode, right? It got to be radian mode. Why? Because it's mixing with the time, and also, that, you know, the uh, period to be 8 seconds. Therefore, it got to be radian mode. So, uh, I'm going to give you time. Enter this in your calculator. It is important practice, practice, all right? So, all right. If you are using Inspire, every time you open a new calculator screen, you got to check what's the mode. And then if you use a TI-84, okay? Then, uh, once you changed that your mode, all right? In radian mode, and you should be okay. And now, I strongly that once you change the mode, you go to the screen and then it should be stay as a radian mode, all right? Now, I strongly recommend write it out and then enter in your calculator. So I'm waiting somebody to uh, share the answer if you entered in your calculator. Anybody? Yes. 23 exact, right? So that will be 23 ft. I'm going to give you a little bit of time to confirm. Okay? If you have issue with the use of a calculator, uh, please make sure that I, uh, ask your elbow partner, or myself to help you, so that you would know uh, use of a calculator, because this unit is calculator allowed, and a lot of this computation is involved with uh, use of a calculator. Technology use. Okay? [inaudible] 20 cosine, parentheses, parentheses, right? And then sometimes using parentheses pi over 4 is also helpful. Yeah. Okay. If you got that, can I see thumbs up, guys? All right. Beautiful, beautiful. Yes. Good job. All right. So now, uh move on to the C. I'm going to show you how to solve the C two methods. And number one, graphically. Oh, I, I kind of noticed that some of you are still working on it. Let's wait a little bit. You got it? 23? Everybody? Okay, so now graphically, all right? So, uh, when it says graphically, must show the graph. So, uh, I'm going to sketch the graph. So, open your calculator, type up the equation. Cosine, all right? Uh, pi / 4, I usually put the pi / 4 around, you know, I put the parentheses and then X - 3, and then plus 23, okay? Inspire, you wanted to make sure that graphing screen and check setting your mode got to be radian. All right? Again, Inspire, every time you open a new screen, you want to check what's the mode. Now, when you are graphing this, you expect to know how to make appropriate window, okay? So, X got to be period is 8 seconds, so you wanted to see at least the two, you know, two and a half period, right? So you're going to say 0 to the maybe uh three times 8, so it's 25 at least, so maybe three period. And then, Y, maximum is 43. Therefore, window needed to be 0 to the at least 45, or, so I'm going to do 50, all right? So, uh, the graphically wise, you have to have a knowledge how to set window, okay? So, then, uh, you hit the graph here. All right? I'm going to erase the 20 for now. Okay. So, this is the graph you should see. Okay? If you do not see this, there is a possibility of two problems. One, you did not set the window right. Second, it's another possibility you are in the wrong mode. If you are in degree mode, you might be just see the just a straight line, something like that, okay? So, change the mode. All right. So, I'm going to sketch the graph because it's required to uh, as a problem solving, all right? And the sketching graph is appropriate. I do not expect such as, you know, uh, put the exact scales, okay? So I'm going to say the top uh, axis is 50, and then my window is going up to the about 25. Okay. So, this is a T, this is an H. All right. Then, we're going to go Y equal to second equation to be uh, 20, because that we wanted to know, uh, where that's equation, Y1, Y2 intersect when it's 20. So, uh that, again, uh, you graph, okay? So, I am going to sketch here uh Y = 20, Y = 20. Now, problem is asking uh how long it take uh for you to be 20 ft above the ground second time. That means, we are looking for Y = 20 intersect with the original graph second time. So, this is the first time. First time, and this is the second time. I hope that makes sense. So go, uh use the intersecting feature in your calculator, find the second time intersection. Anybody can share the answer? T = 2? I heard that 5.19 second in three significant figure. Okay? All right. I recommend practice, and uh you are very capable, and it's not hard to find these values. Okay? Intersection. All right. I'm going to second methodology. Algebraically. Okay? Algebraically means that uh you do not need to show both way. Just to choose one. And algebraically you say 20 equal to your equation to 20, uh cosine and then pi / 4 and T - 3 and + 23. You are looking for T, okay? First step, take away 23 both side. So then, you have -3 = 20 cosine pi / 4, T - 3, okay? Are we all following, guys? All right. Then what's the next step? We're going to divide both sides by 20. Okay? Then, we will put the inverse sign, which is arc cosine both side. So cosine goes away. Then isolate T. Final answer. T will be equal to arc cosine -3 / 20 times reciprocal pi / 4. So, we will have 4 times 4 / pi. 4 times divided by pi, and then -3 needed to be added, so the other side will be plus 3. So, you needed to enter this in your calculator and please check when you did enter this in your calculator with radian mode, you should have. Okay, I'm waiting. You got the answer already? No? Are you trying it out? Please, yeah. Okay. So, let's see anybody uh who got the answer? I'm waiting. Yes, again? 5.192, and therefore three significant figures, and second. Now, yes? That is an excellent question. I was waiting somebody ask that. Okay. So how do we know this is not first time intersection, it's second time intersection? Anybody has some insightful thoughts? Share the idea. How do we know this is second time intersection? Okay, so here is how uh we identify. Period was 8 seconds, right? So between second intersection, first intersection, what's the time difference? Four. Four. Half of the period. So, when you subtract 4 and you get to 1.19. So 1.19 is a first intersection, and then second intersection will be 5.1 uh 5.19. Now, if we subtract half period, T is a negative value, then we know that is a first intersection. Doesn't make sense? Because we cannot have a negative, you know, time, right? So, does, I hope it makes sense, right? So, if I ask you, what is a third intersection without actually doing, uh, doing tracing, what would be the time? 9.19. 9.19. You would be adding another 4 seconds. So every 4 seconds there is just a 20 ft height. Half of the period. Doesn't make sense? So that was a really excellent question. And without that, uh, you know, question, I would not have discussed that, and so which is great. Okay? So, I want you guys to go in, find that. All right? Uh, this next problem is going to be homework, guys. I want to practice. And then the following question, I will also make it as a homework. Now, please go to the page. It says double and half angle identities. And I want you to practice copper toy company problem right now. Now, you manage this problem, okay? Individually. Okay? Then you can say, "Oh, I get it. I understand how to write equation, modeling, you know, with the situation. So, I'm going to give you about 5 minutes to work on this problems. Okay? So. [inaudible] I'm putting red star, because this problem is a such important problem. Okay? Very important. [inaudible] [inaudible] So [inaudible] You need [inaudible] I mean, I'm looking for that [inaudible] Oh, wait. That's the [inaudible] What is [inaudible] [inaudible] Is it cosine or sign? [inaudible] [inaudible] How does it change? [inaudible] I need a cup. Mm. That was good. [inaudible] I need a cup [inaudible] I'm putting [inaudible] Okay. I am going to now derive, um, it's known as a half angle identity, then this half angle identity will be used for following problem solving. Do you want to have a little break? Okay. So I've been munching, munching. So let's everybody stand up and then stretch, okay? Uh, [inaudible] I do have some, uh, chocolate, okay? If you want to, uh, okay. Uh, you can have some chocolate. [inaudible] I do not have enough donuts so I cannot share donuts.  I have donuts, but not enough for everybody. [inaudible] [inaudible] So during my first period, I call student name all the time. So, just in case if I ever, you know, call out the student name, we need to edit it out. Yeah. Okay. Are you already okay? Yeah. Okay. Are you a little bit tired? You, you just put it in too much I'm sorry. Okay, just.  Oh, for some reason, I have a this [inaudible] Oh, okay, okay. [inaudible] Students who are absent today, tomorrow they come back, they recognize we are speaking all different language. Because we will be very advanced. Yeah. We just, know how to solve things differently now. Mr. Soria A. So uh, you failed at turning in the assignment or you. I need to show you. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Make sure you do it. I still grading it. Yeah, okay, all right. Just making sure.   