If you are qualified to retake, and next Wednesday, uh, let's arrange so that you will be catching up. Is everybody understand the retake uh requirement, right? Okay? Uh, when we sign up? Okay. So, I will be reminding you uh again, all right. So, please find the packet, uh, over the, find the Ferris wheel problem. So, okay, guys. So, let's go over this problem together. I noticed some of you have some major some progress, some of you didn't. So, I'm going to make sure that we are all in same uh, pace. All right. Okay. So, this problem is describing from bottom to the top of the wheel is going to be uh, 43 ft, okay? And then, uh, diameter of this wheel is 40 ft, okay? That means from ground to the bottom of the wheel is going to be 43 minus uh, 40. Therefore, 3 ft, right? And then it takes one full revolution every eight seconds. That means the period is going to be equal to eight seconds. So, to model this problem, we're going to use a uh, sinusoidal, especially cosine equation. So, we're going to say, let's change this uh, lowercase H to be capital H so that we do not mix up with the phase shift H, okay? So, we're going to use H of T equal to co- uh, A times cosine and then 2π divided by period and then X. In this case, actually, it's a T because the T is a time. T minus H, and then plus K. We're going to to use this form of equation modeling the situation. So, uh, we will say H is going to be height, okay? Height, which will be, unit will be feet. And then, T will be time. Time is going to be in second. Now, we calculated the A amplitude and the maximum minus minimum divided by two, which means max height minus minimum height divided by two, in this case, 43 is the maximum height, and then, minimum height is a three because the ground to bottom of the hill is a 3 ft, and then divide by two, which is going to be 40/2, which will be 20 ft. That's the amplitude. Now, K is axis, right? Vertical shift, and this is calculated by max plus minimum divided by two, so we're going to say again, 43 + 3 divided by two, which is going to be 23. Now, there's another way to determine amplitude and axis, looking at this diagram here, that, uh, from middle line which is a center of the wheel to the, uh, top of the wheel, which will be basically radius. Radius is going to be amplitude, right? And then, axis will be from ground to the center of the wheel, which will be three plus radius is 20, so 23 is going to be axis. So, you do not have to use this formula and you can look at the diagram also determine, you know, what is A and what is K value, okay? Now, the most importantly, we needed to know how to determine phase shift H, right? So, it's a problem is describing, it takes three seconds to reach to the top, and this top maximum value T, which is three seconds it take there, that will be equal to phase shift, which is equal to H, okay? So, we have all the values we need for the equation, okay? A amplitude, and also, period to uh eight seconds, and also, phase shift to three, and then K, which is axis. So, uh, I'm going to summarize our equation. H of T is equal to 20, cosine and two pi divided by period, which is eight, and then T minus three, phase shift, and plus K, which is axis. So, I'm going to box our final answers. Okay? Is that clear, guys, right? Okay. So, now, B is asking, how high above the ground? Basically, it's asking, what is H value, right? The height, and uh after eight seconds. So, that means T equal to nine, I mean, sorry, not eight, nine seconds, all right? So, I'm going to uh, plug it in nine seconds directly to this equation. So, H of nine is equal to 20 cosine. So, two pi over eight, I'm going to simplify to be pi over four, so, nine minus three, and then plus 23. And I will be entering, you will be entering this directly in your calculator, and when you do computation, what mode this need to be? It needed to be radian mode, right? It got to be radian mode. Why? Because it's mixing with the time and also that this, you know, the uh, period to be eight seconds, therefore, it got to be radian mode. So, uh, I'm going to give you time, enter this in your calculator. It is an important practice, practice, all right? So, all right. If you are using Inspire, every time you open new calculator screen, you got to check what the mode. And then if you use TI-84, okay? Then, uh, once you changed that, your mode, all right, in radian mode, and you should be okay. And now, I strongly that once you change the mode, you go to the screen, and then it should be stay as a radian mode, all right? Now, I strongly recommend write it out and then enter in your calculator. So, I'm waiting somebody to uh, to share the answer, if you entered in your calculator. Anybody? Yes. 23 exact, right? So, that'll be 23 ft. I'm going to give you a little bit of time to confirm. Okay. If you have issue with the use of calculator, uh, please make sure that I uh, ask your elbow partner or myself to help you so that you would know uh, use of calculator because this unit is calculator allowed, and a lot of this computation is involved with uh, use of a calculator, technology use. Okay?  How do you know if it's close or sign? I don't even know. 20 cosine, parenthesis parenthesis, right? And then sometimes using parenthesis pi over four is also helpful. Yeah. Okay, if you got that, can I see thumbs up, guys? All right. Beautiful, beautiful. Yes. Good job. All right. So, now, uh, move on to the C. I'm going to show you how to solve the C two methods. And number one graphically. Oh, I I kind of notice some of you are still working on it. Let's wait a little bit. You got it? 23? Everybody in there? Okay. So, now graphically, all right? So, uh, when it says graphically, must show the graph. So, uh, I'm going to sketch the graph. So, open your calculator, type up the equation. Cosine, all right? Uh, pi over four, I usually uh, put the pi over four around the, you know, I put the parenthesis, and then x minus three, and then plus 23, okay? Inspire, you wanted to make sure that graphing screen, and check setting, your mode got to be radian, all right? Again, Inspire, every time you open new screen, you want to check what the mode. Now, when you are graphing this, you expect to know how to make appropriate window, okay? So, x got to be period a second. So, you wanted to see at least two, you know, two and a half period, right? So, you're going to say zero to the maybe uh, three times eight, so it's a 25 at least, so maybe three period, and then Y, maximum is 43. Therefore, a window needed to be zero to the at least 45, or so I'm going to do 50, all right? So, uh, the graphical-wise, you have to have a knowledge how to set window, okay? So, then uh, you hit the graph here, all right? I'm going to to erase the 20 for now. Okay? So, this is the graph you should see. Okay? If you do not see this, there is a possibility of two problem. One, you did not set the window right. Second, it's another possibilities you are in the wrong mode. If you are in degree mode, you might be just to see the just the straight line, something like that, okay? So, change the mode. All right. So, I'm going to sketch the graph because it's required to uh, as a problem solving, all right? And the sketching graph is appropriate. I do not expect such as, you know, uh, put the exact scales, okay? So, I'm going to say the top uh, axis is 50, and then my window is going up to the about 25, okay? So, this is T, this is H. All right. Then, we're going to go Y equal to second equation to be uh, 20, because that we wanted to know uh, where that's equation Y1, Y2 intersect when it's 20. So, uh, that again, uh, you graph, okay? So, I am going to sketch here, uh, Y equal to 20, Y equal to 20. Now, problem is asking uh, how long it take uh, for you to be 20 ft above the ground second time. That means, we are looking for Y equal 20 intersect with the original graph, second time. So, this is the first time. First time, and this is the second time. I hope that makes sense? So, go uh, use the intersecting feature in your calculator, find the second time intersection. Anybody can share the answer, T equal to I heard that, 5.19 seconds in three significant figure. Okay? All right, I recommend practice, and uh, you are very capable and it's a not harder to find these values, okay? In a section. All right. I'm going into second methodology, algebraically. Okay? Algebraically means that, uh, you do not need to show both way, just to choose one. And algebraically, you say 20 is equal to your equation 20 uh, cosine and then pi over four, and T minus three, and plus 23. You're looking for T. Okay? First step, take away 23 both sides. So, then, you have negative three equals to 20 cosine pi over four, T minus three. Okay? Are we all following, guys? All right. Then, what's the next step? We're going to divide both side by 20. Okay? Then, we will put the inverse sign, which is arc cosine, both sides. So, cosine goes away. Then, isolate T. Final answer, T will be equal to arc cosine negative three over 20 times reciprocal pi over four. So, we will have four times, four over pi, four times divide by pi, and then minus three needed to be added. So, the other side will be plus three. So, you needed to enter this in your calculator, and please check, when you do the enter this in your calculator with radian mode, you should have Okay, I'm waiting. You got the answer already? No? Are you trying it out? Please? Yeah. Okay. So, let's see, anybody uh, who got the answer? I'm waiting. Yes. Again. 5.192, and therefore, three significant figure and second. Now, yes? That is an excellent question. I was waiting somebody ask that, okay? So, how do we know this is not first time intersection, it's a second time intersection? Anybody has some insightful thoughts to share the idea? How do we know this is the second time intersection? Okay. So, here is how uh, we identify. Period was just eight seconds, right? So, between second intersection, first intersection, what's the time difference? Four. Four. Half of the period. So, when you subtract four and you get 1.19. So, 1.19 is a first intersection, and then second intersection will be 5.1, uh, 5.19. Now, if we subtract half period, T is a negative value, then we know that is a first intersection. Does that make sense? Because, we cannot have a negative, you know, time, right? So, does I hope it makes sense, right? So, if I ask you, what is the third intersection, without actually doing, uh, doing tracing, what would be the time? 9.19. You would be adding another four seconds. So, every four seconds there is just 20 ft height. Half of the period. Doesn't make sense? So, that was a really excellent question, and without that, uh, you know, question, I would not discussed that, and so it's great. Okay? So, I want you guys go in, find that, all right? Uh, this next problem going to be homework, guys. I want you to practice, and then, the following question, I will also make it as a homework. Now, please go to the page. It says, double and half-angle identities. And I want you to practice Copper Toy Company problem right now. Now, you manage this problem okay? Individually, okay? Then, you can say, oh, I get it. I understand how to write equation, modeling, you know, with the situation. So, I'm going to give you about five minutes to work on these problems, okay? So. I'm putting red star because this problem is a such important problem, okay? Very important.  Let me see if I can hear what's going on.
Shall we check answers? So, all right, guys, I solve the algebraically. All right? Knowing the period is 10, B is pi over five, okay? So, yeah. How do you get the period? The, um, at the end of this period? Okay. So, you explained him just the answer. I don't I don't fully get it, but I I know how I am wrong. You shouldn't be using it. So, then, uh, four seconds, right? And that is going to be the phase shift, right? Does that makes sense? All right. Five seconds later, right? Five seconds later, then so you times it twice, huh? Times it two, yeah, times two, right? So, five seconds later, it came to the from top to the bottom, so, from maximum to minimum is five seconds. That means, if you needed to go up to the maximum again, it will take another five seconds. That's why it's a ten seconds is the period, okay? Got it? All right. Okay. And I think B is very straightforward, you are just substituting T equal to 15. You are asking good questions. How do we determine period, uh, knowing that maximum to minimum is five seconds and the period is ten seconds, all right? Mhm. How do you know, it's close or sign? Oh, you could change into cosine. So, uh, because this this is saying, uh, the you uh, you winded up and start at T equal to uh, four, but it was the maximum height. Oh, it's easier because Easier. Yes. Then, if you wanted to do in sign, then you needed to figure out, you know, uh, quarter period, the other way. Yeah, got it? Which is I think it's going to be not a whole number, right? Yeah. So, now, uh, then the first time uh, the height spring is 12 cm above the ground. I solved algebraically, of course, that you can solve graphically. Then when I solved it, the algebraically, I found T to be 6.5 seconds. Now, then, I wanted to check if it's a first intersection or a second intersection. So, it says that, question is asking, first intersection, first time. So, I took away five. As I said, you are going to subtract half of the period by that values you found, and then I found 1.5, which was not a negative value. So, my answer will be 1.5 seconds, and I recognize, 6.5 seconds is second time, it's going to be 12 cm above the ground. Okay? Makes sense? Okay. I, I see some nodding, that's really nice to see, okay? Any questions? So, this is what I recommend. If you are almost 90% was able to formulate whole process, you got this concept, okay? Again, this will be major concept, big, you know, problem in coming unit exam, you know, material. I hope that makes sense, okay? All right. Okay. Good exercise. Now, we're going to go into some more additional identities. Okay, so, any questions before I move into uh, the double and the half-angle identities? Okay. So, I'm going to go into using additional identities. Okay? And I'm going to derive double angle identity of sine 2 theta, okay? So, I'm going to say sine 2 theta is theta plus theta, and therefore, and it will end up to be sine theta times cosine theta plus and the sine theta times again cosine theta. Because the x is theta, Y is theta. Therefore, it will turn into two sine theta cosine theta. So, we concluded that when you have sine of two theta, sine of two theta is saying, I have a sine expression period of pi because 2 theta means that, you know, 2 pi divided by two is going to be period, right? However, that will be equal to two times sine theta and the cosine theta, and you can be replacing, and we this is known as double angle identity. Okay? And we're going to do the exact same thing for the cosine 2 theta. So, you say cosine 2 theta equal to. Now, again, uh, cosine theta plus theta, because the two, there are two of them. And I will call one theta to be X, the other theta to be Y, and therefore, you have a cosine theta times cosine theta minus sine theta times sine theta, which make cosine square theta minus sine square theta. Okay? So, what does it mean is uh, cosine 2 theta, which is a two angle, right? Two times of angle, you can uh, compute this by cosine square theta minus sine square theta. Okay? That's just directly. Now, if you recall, Pythagorean identity is saying, okay, notes here, cosine square theta is equal to one minus sine square theta. We already talked about this is a Pythagorean identity, and then, we're going to to substitute in here, then result will be, now, one minus sine square theta, minus sine square theta, which will be 1 minus 2 sine square theta, which is that implying cosine square theta minus sine square theta is exactly equal to one minus two sine square theta, and that is equal to cosine two theta. So, there is additional identity you can derive. And the same reason, okay, uh, we also know sine square theta equal to 1 minus cosine square theta. Same logic, I'm going to substitute this into sine square theta, so, you will say equal to cosine square theta coming from the above expression, and then you have a minus, 1 minus cosine square theta. That ends up to be negative, negative make a positive, so you have two of cosine square theta, so you say two cosine square theta, and then negative minus distributed, minus one. So, we created one additional identity in terms of cosine theta. Well, when you have a double angle identity. Okay? And the next our task is how we're going to use it for problem solving, okay? Yes? From this step to this step? You mean the uh, tangent two theta is equal to, there's a two theta, no, the one in the middle. This one? Yeah. So, I'm following this additional identity. So, this X is theta, and then, Y is theta, right? So, you say tangent theta and then tangent theta, Okay? So, this is known as additional identity, okay? So, just to follow this identity, and then we simplified. Excellent question. Okay. Uh, I'm going to to make sure that there is no uh, exponent there, just making sure, okay? All right. Thank you very much for asking clarification questions. Okay. I am going to now, derive, um, it's known as a half angle identity, then this half angle identity will be used for following problem solving. Do you want to have a little break? Okay. So, I've been munching, munching, so, let's everybody stand up and stretch. Okay? Uh, I do have some uh, chocolate, okay? If you want to, uh, okay, uh, you can have some chocolate. I do not have enough donuts, so I cannot share donut. I have donut but not enough for everybody. For some reason, I have a this. Oh, okay, okay. Oh, for some reason, I have a, this 295. So, now we wanted to evaluate sine pi pi over eight? Is it in unit circle angle? No, it's not. It's not in unit circle. Therefore, can we find exact answers? Now, we do. This is how we're going to do it. We're going to say theta equal to five pi over four, okay? And therefore, you're going to change this into sine of five pi over four divided by two. So, basically, theta over two is equal to five pi over eight. We just used the half angle identity. So, what does this mean? This is equal to, okay? By the half angle identity we just worked on here, and you have plus minus square root of one minus theta is 5 pi over four. So, you have cosine 5 pi over four over two, okay? Then, I wanted to point in angle five pi over eight, which quadrant angle is it? Five pi over eight. That will be second quadrant angle. So, pi over uh, pi and then pi over two, right? So, therefore, is a sine second quadrant positive or negative? Sine second quadrant positive or negative? Positive. Therefore, I am not going to keep negative value. You see why I removed the negative? Why? Because this five pi over eight is a second quadrant, sine is positive. Okay? So, I'm going to proceed here, okay? Square root of one minus cosine five pi over four is what? Negative root over two, right? Uh, because it's the second quadrant, it's the cosine 5 pi over four is negative root two over two, okay? So, you have negative root two over two, divide by two, okay? So, now that makes, uh, negative, negative to be positive. And then also, I'm going to change one to be two over two, because it's a, we want to have a common denominator. So, you will have square root of two over two plus root two over two over two, okay? So then, two times two and you will have algebraically denominator is a four, and then you have a two plus root two. And the root four, I'm going to take it out of us, the radical, so you have square root of two plus root three over two, that is going to be answer for cosine 195 degrees. So, we know now, when it's not in unit circle angle, and we can still figure out exact values. Theoretically, and if you know how to make a combinations of identity, and then break it up angles in different, you know, angles, then you theoretically, you can solve pretty much any angles trig expression. Now, I wanted to also point out second methodology, okay? So, I'm going to copy down cosine 195 degrees, okay? I'm going to break it up instead of half angle identity. I'm going to say cosine 150 plus 45. Now, 150 plus 45 is also in unit circle, right? So, now we pointed out that additional identity, okay? When we derived double angle identity, we used the cosine x plus y, and the additional identity. So, I'm going to use this to be equal to cosine 150 times uh, cosine 45, and then minus sine 150. Oh, I'm running out of space. So, I will make a little bit more room here. Okay, let me rewrite this with more room, okay? Cosine 150 cosine 45 minus sine 150, and sine 45. That's additional identity, okay? Be aware, this will be available for you, okay? So, we just going to follow trigonometry. What's cosine 150 equal to? It's a second quadrant, therefore, it's a negative root three over two. Now, cosine 45, of course it's a root two over two, right? Now, what is the sine 150? It will be positive one half, okay? And the sine 45 is root two over two, of course. Therefore, negative root six over four, minus root two over four, and you, if you wanted to, you can write down negative root six minus root two over four. I mean, it's up to you, but it's both are correct expression, okay? So, again, uh, this is implied these two values are exactly same if you rationalize it, okay? That's what is implying, and we got the uh, different methodology, and also, we got answers. Okay? Any questions on this? So, even it's not in unit circle angle, and if we use appropriate identity, half angle identity, additional identity, and double angle identity, we should be able to solve it and into the values of exact answers. Okay? So, I want you guys to practice uh, this is posted as a homework, guys. Uh, let's see, 373, okay? I'm going to to put this uh, a little bit zoom in, all right. Okay. Practice number six A and B right now, okay? It's your time to practice. Okay. All right.  It need to be done in your notebook. Practice it. So, there are students. Because I didn't want to put the name, any student. You guys were talking. I couldn't call out your name, because it was recording. I supposed not to. Come on, you guys are you lucky guys. I almost call the run, but I couldn't. I is because I'm supposed not to have a student name in it. Okay? All right. Stop it, thank you. Okay, all right. Guys, practice it, okay, guys? All right. You know, that's something I'm not allowed. I mean, you can talk, but I can, I can rephrase your saying, but I cannot name the person. Yeah, because that's, that's one thing I cannot put the name in it. Yeah. So, uh, you failed turning in these assignments. Oh, I need to show you. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Make sure you do it. I'm still grading it. Yeah, okay. Okay. All right. Just making sure.