he's talked about in the documentary, um, Jacobo Arbenz. He is, he comes from an immigrant family. His family's from Switzerland, German actually, Swiss, German. Uh, but he grows up in Guatemala, born and raised in Guatemala, lived with mostly the indigenous population. So, he very, so strongly feels Guatemalan. Um, and he implements a little bit more, slightly more radical reforms. Um, his goals as president is to make his country more economically independent. AKA, no more relying on the, uh, US corporation, UFCO. Um, modernizing his country, building more infrastructure, more modern infrastructures for his country, uh, increasing the standard of living for the people. Those are kind of great, uh, objectives, right? Um, the only problem is, Arbenz starts to choose, place individuals who have communistic leaning or are associated with a communist party, with the communist political party in Guatemala, in his government. And that triggers the United States, like anything that is, left of capitalism is bad at this point. In 1952, Arbenz, um, pushes this, uh, policy known famously as Decree 900. That you might want to note because that is not something the documentary talks about. Uh, essentially, that is the nationalization of land. When I say nationalization, I'm not talking about nationalism. It's a policy where the government starts to own things, right? If you nationalize industry, that means all the businesses are owned by the government. If you nationalize land, all the land is owned by the government. And there are multiple ways to nationalize things. We often associate nationalizing of industry and property and land to communist, uh, regimes that do it by force. Like, I'm going to take all these, uh, businesses, all of this land, and it belongs to the government now. And you saw that in China with the nationalization of industries and land, where it's like, "You either give it to us, or you die, and we still take it." Um, here, what he does in his Decree 900 to nationalize land, um, and then to redistribute it, is he buys it up. He buys the land from the elites, or kind of forces them to, and he buys it from UFCO. And I mentioned in the documentary that we watched, United Fruit Company had a history of tax avoidance. There are two ways that it was doing tax avoidance: It would either, it didn't have to pay much taxes when it was exporting the bananas. It was bringing the bananas out from Guatemala to the United States. Um, the other tax avoidance was that it was undervaluing its land. Remember in the last slide with Ubico and then with Ubico? 72% of the land was owned by 2% of the elite population in Guatemala, and then the rest was owned by United Fruit Company. That's a lot, it's like 20-something percentage of Guatemalan land. But UFCO, in their paperwork, undervalued their land. Like, "This land is worthless, it's not that much." So when Arbenz comes to power and when Arbenz issues Decree 900, it's like, "I'm buying all that land back. I'm going to redistribute it to indigenous populations, to the peasants, to the poor people who don't have land." He goes to UFCO. He's like, "Yeah, this, this, this, this land, I'm buying it back. Your paperwork says it's only this much, it's only this value." And this is when UFCO gets very, very unhappy, right? Because the land, he's like, "You say it's only worth this much, I'm only paying you what you said legally on this document," which they have lied on the document, 'cause they undervalued their land. So, because they undervalued to save at paying taxes, so, like, "Oh, this land is, it's not worth that much." And now, um, uh, with Decree 900, Arbenz is like, "Okay, I'm buying it. It is a national policy. You are a foreign corporation. You must work around the, the laws and policies of our government." So, Decree 900. Just to review this from your reading, there's a bunch of policies that have been put in place and a bunch of institutions. Do you remember OSA? Organization of, uh, South America. And then, in your reading, they talked about the Rio Pact. That was on your reading quiz, again, this is from your reading. These are things that were implemented after World War II. The Rio Pact is essentially a treaty signed between the US and a bunch of Latin American countries saying, "We're going to protect each other." Mutual Security Agreement. It's essentially, you can write next to the Rio Pact, "the Latin, the American, the Western hemisphere Americus version of NATO, essentially. If somebody attacks us, we'll defend each other." And then OSA is just like organization to promote solidarity, like, "We, the countries of the Americas, are going to work together, treat each other fairly. Everybody's going to be seen equally. We're going to promote, um, equal rights and economic prosperity for everybody." But it's really the US behind this, the establishing of OSA, and the US' motive is to contain communism and to assert its sphere of influence. Um, just a reminder, everything that is, um, left of capitalism is considered communism at this time. This is just a review. Okay? Again, another review: The Declaration of Caracas. This was from your reading. Um, the reading of, uh, "Born in Blood and Fire." The Caracas, uh, Declaration is essentially making this assertion that communism is foreign to the peoples and the governments of the Western hemisphere, aka, the Americas, north and south. So, any communist movements made or started in the Western hemisphere will be considered a foreign intervention. Everybody signs, every member of OSA signs it and agrees to it except for Guatemala. And that was in your reading. Guatemala refuses not to. OA. OA. Oh, did I say OS? No. No. OAS. I keep on saying OSA. OAS. So according to your reading, I want you to try to recall, look at your notes, turn in with your table mates, what does the author, um, from "Born in Blood," who is a historian that specializes in Latin American history, why does, uh, Guatemala vote against the declaration of Caracas? Guatemala. Why does Guatemala vote against the declaration of Caracas? That's like, "I don't." Guatemala chose. Because. Because basically the declaration. Was, essentially the sign in 1954, there was currently a government under Arbenz, and so they can't. If you don't know, you might want to look through your notes. You want to pull it up. There's not time for you to just wait to. This is from your reading, "Notes of the Onset of the Cold War." All right, why does Guatemala, according to the historian John Chasteen in "Born in Blood and Fire," what, why does Guatemala vote against the declaration of Caracas? It's a very straightforward, um, answer. Yes, because they want the Latin American solidarity. Yeah. They wanted, they, they voted against this declaration because they were trying to say, "We don't want US influence. Like, we should try to stand on our own. We, as the countries of Latin America, the Americas, we should join together to push back American influence. American pressure. This is just a, this is just the US trying to pressure us to follow along with their policy. And we, too long, have been doing that and that we should stand on our own. It's Americ-it, this is, this is happening. 54, this is during the decade of spring. They overthrew their dictator. This is in the midst of the Arbenz, um, government. Um, they're feeling it, you know, they're feeling excited. They're feeling like, "We can make a change. We can try to, you know, push out the US and it's fears of influence." Right? If you didn't know that, that's something, people, note, yeah. Okay. I'm going to switch back to US, um, policy. So, these are things that you might want to note down, unless you're an expert on Eisenhower. Uh, after Truman's term as president ends, he's replaced by Eisenhower. You saw that in the documentary. Don't care if you don't know. You don't need to write his full name, but his name, I remember, remembered his middle initial. Dwight D. Eisenhower. He is president from 53 to '61, which is key because this is the period where we have the coup, uh, and the intensification of the Cold War. Truman does, sorry, not Truman. Eisenhower does accept the Truman Doctrine, which is containment of communism. What he takes a different interpretation. His administration views that you need to take an active role in containing communism. For him, it's not sending aid to help these countries fight communist insurgents, communist movements, like what Truman did to help the Greeks and the Turks in their situation. Truman, sorry, Eisenhower, sorry. Eisenhower is more of a man of action. He comes from a military background. He was a commanding general in World War II. And so, his interpretation will lead the US into a policy where they will use the CIA, which is a clandestine spy organization, to carry out covert, that means secret, um, hidden actions against governments and leaders that the United States government sees, uh, feels that is directly or indirectly connected to the Soviet Union, or as, uh, as the administration says, "Directly or indirectly responsive to Soviet control." So we have a different interpretation of containment policy with this new president, and he's like, "We're going to, we are going to be more aggressive and active in containing communism. We're still not going to use direct means, as in using the US military, because using the US military is a declaration of war to the Soviet Union, and then we don't want a war with the Soviet Union because nuclear weapons." So we will use our clandestine branches of the government, which is the CIA, and they will carry out covert actions. They will carry out, um, the, the agenda that we want, to contain communism. So moving forward, this is going to be the model for containment. CIA, using covert action against any government or leaders that the US feels has some sort of direct or indirect connection, response to Soviet control. Meanwhile, in the Soviet Union, things are changing. Uh, Stalin dies in '53, and we have new leadership, um, afterwards, and it's a guy named Nikita Khrushchev. You can just write Khrushchev. You can just remember him as Khrushchev. That's fine. Um, he comes to power in the, like, in the years after Stalin. There's a brief period of, like, collective action and then Nikita Khrushchev comes to power. He implements two policies within the Soviet Union: an internal policy of de-Stalinization and a foreign policy of peaceful coexistence. In the next slide, I'll explain what each of these are. He was quite a fiery man. Um, he is known to be very, very vocal. Um, he, uh, does not stand down at anything. He will speak very passionate about anything. There is a famous, um, incident at the UN where, um, somebody spoke up. I can't remember, I think the, the, uh, the representative from, like, the Philippines, which was a US colony-ish, uh, at the time, spoke up against communism, and it pissed off Khrushchev and he was yelling back, um, and there are stories that he took off his shoe and slammed it, used it as, like, a gavel, to, like, um, to emphasize his point about, um, how, you know, the capitalist countries are just ganging up on the communist countries. There are some images of him doing that. Most of it, most of those images are doctored. They're actually fake. Uh, yeah. But, there are, like, the people at the UN during that meeting, some people are like, "Yeah, I remember a shoe," and some people are like, "I don't remember a shoe." They're like, "That was made up." So, very, and he's known to be very fiery. Um, he has a very, very funny interaction with US Vice President Richard Nixon in the 60s, um, as he's showing off, um, as, as they do, like, a mutual exchange and we'll read about their interaction. It's, it's a, they essentially debate about kitchen stuff and how capitalism is better for women, versus, and then Khrushchev's like, "No, communism is better for women in their kitchen," and stuff like that. We'll get to that. Okay, what is de-Stalinization under Khrushchev? So, we have a new leader in the Soviet Union, we have a new leader in the, uh, United States. You have Eisenhower, and you have Khrushchev. De-Stalinization, he's trying to get rid of remnants of Stalin. He closes down all of Stalin's gulags, which I told you we learned last year, right? Terrible place. Don't ever want to be there. Um, and then, he destroys a lot of Stalin, like, gets rid of all the Stalin monuments and streets that are named after Stalin, like Stalin, or cities and places. He, he tries to, um, bring down the cult of Stalin, right? He's essentially trying to legitimize his control of the Soviet Union. Like, how can you be the next leader if there's such a strong cult of Stalin? He actually gives this, like, four-hour-long speech to the communist party where he literally rants about how Stalin was bad, um, and kind of just tries to destroy the cult of Stalin. That is not known until much later when the Soviets, um, they found, like, documents. It was a secret meeting with only, like, you know, communist officials, um, and he, he went on for a really long time. I think it was, like, four hours. He was going on off about Stalin. Um, and then, his external policy, which is really important for us to understand in the context of the Cold War, he's going to shift away from Stalin's very aggressive, anti-capital, anti, um, not capital, anti-western democracy, like US, Britain, France thing to, uh, to Khrushchev's policy of peaceful coexistence with capitalist nations. So, create a more positive view of the Soviet Union. Instead of just being an antagonistic, like, opposite to the US, uh, he wants to create a show of, "Hey, it's not bad being in the Soviet Union, life is going to be better." And, um, it, it's like, you know, reverse PR, right? Instead of saying, "Capitalism is bad, capitalism is bad, the US is bad, the US is bad, don't listen to them," it's more, he's now saying, "The, like, life under communism is great. It helps, you know, it, all the positive things that it can do for the people." Um, so it is a redirecting kind of the, the portrayal of communism and the Soviet Union, and he's like, "We're not going to try to be so aggressive where we're going to trigger a fight with capitalist nations, we're, we'll try to peacefully live with them. We're not going to try to do this what Lenin dreams of, is, like, taking over the world and creating a communist utopia of everywhere." Oh, would you say that similar to how, like, Mao did with the,  peaceful coexistence with Mao?  Like, where? Who? Mao was more focused internally, but like he was, he wanted, like, the best of communism.  Like, for China. For China, right? Yeah, for China. Would, is, they view the same way? No. Okay. Because the, Mao was focused on China and taking back what was China. The Soviet Union under Lenin and even, and then under Stalin was about, well, specifically, Lenin had a goal of this communist world, that they can create, a communist, this vision of a communist, uh, world. Stalin was like, "Oh, we can't create a communist world if Russia, who is the leader of communism, hasn't industrialized, hasn't become the best yet." So we gotta industrialize, we gotta be the best that we can. Then we can be this, we can create our communist world and spread. Um, and last year, you studied about, like, the five-year plan and all those economic policies. Um, and then after World War II, you see the, the Soviet sphere of influence and spreading. That, he's, there's this vision of, "We're going to spread communism around the world." Khrushchev is, is kind of going back and saying, "You know what? There's going to be some non-communist world, uh, countries, and that's okay, and we can live with it. We'll try to, uh, peacefully coexist with them. Um, the Soviet Union also tries to avoid any direct confrontation, like, direct fighting. Again, not wanting to trigger another World War, um, because now everybody has nuclear weapons. But, there are going to be some kind of direct confrontation. In 1956, uh, Hungary, which was a communist country, which was in the Soviet sphere of influence, they, a bunch of students started to revolt and called for better, uh, rights, uh, uh, more freedoms. Um, and that revolt ended with, uh, the Soviet forces being sent into Hungary to suppress these people. Um, and then another example of direct, this is a more closer, direct confrontation with the US and the West, is the construction of the Berlin Wall in 1961. Um, as so many people from Eastern Berlin were just fence-hopping over to Western Berlin, because they would rather live in the western part, which was, um, democratic and capitalist, than the Soviet controlled part, which is, um, the east, which is under communism. Um, all right. Uh, okay. Sorry. This is from your reading, just a recap of, like, UFCO and containment. This was from "Born in Blood." You can get it to look at it later, but it's just re-explaining, like, I'm just reminding you that what I said earlier, some of the policies from these decade of spring presidents in Guatemala, not that radical. Some of these policies actually were implemented in the US. But, because of containment, the fear of the spread of communism, the Cold War going on, and the USCO, like, lobbyists, the people that are connected to the United Fruit Company playing a part in the US government, here's the Dulles brothers, you have the, the coup that happens, right? So, the coup is called Operation PB, uh, PB Success. And that was mentioned in the documentary. Um, there's a lot on here, kind of key things to note down. The CIA trains a group of exiles in, uh, Nicaragua and Honduras. Countries next door to Guatemala. So just note, and it's in your reading that you did yesterday, hopefully you read it. Okay. Just, why is it called PB Success? Uh, I actually did, like, two hours of research on why they chose that name. And my conclusion from my two hours of in-depth research is that the CIA picks random, um, codenames for their, uh, operations. Like, there's no meaning behind the PB. And the success is, in, in hopes that it is successful because they were successful in doing covert actions in, uh, Iran, which the video mentioned, where they took over, uh, they got rid of one leader to put in a leader that was friendly to the US. So, don't read too much into the name of the operation. It is random. They've just kind of picked random. Okay, what happens? The US trains exiles in secret, the CIA does. They supply them with weapons, they supply them with air, uh, air power. They send the, the, um, these exiles that they trained into Guatemala and essentially, um, start, you know, to take over power, a coup, right? So, these, these people with weapons, the US is sort is flying above, um, Guatemala, shooting down, and Guatemala's military and some of its conservative leaders in the government are scared that the US will have a full invasion. So they convince Arbenz to resign. And so, he resigns and he flees. He ends up in, like, Cuba at one point and in another country. And then the US is happy. They're, like, "Yay, that was easy." Um, and this is going, this coup in 1954 is going to be a model that the US will use for many other Latin American countries during the Cold War because it was so successful. It was so easy to just kick out a leader, get him to just leave. After the coup, the US man that they have chosen, which is, um, Castillo Armas, Armas, uh, he takes power. He becomes the next president through elections. Rigged elections. Um, and he repeals Decree 900. He repeals the land reforms, and he arrests 80,000 people that he targets as communists, um, and many of those people are killed, or they disappear. Okay? So things to note, after coup, the US man that they chose to lead the coup, uh, takes power, repeals the, uh, Decree 900, um, and arrests and kill 80,000 people that he targets as, uh, communist. I know this is a lot. But, Castillo does not stay in power for very long. I'm going to go really fast because this part will, we'll go, Yes. He actually gets assassinated a couple of years after his, um, uh, in, in '58, so, like, four years after he comes to power. He's replaced by another dictator, um, and that becomes a pattern in Guatemala, that that, you have a dictator come to power, and then they are replaced. They are either assassinated, overthrown and another one. They all do the same thing. They don't, they work with the US, they, um, they support UFCO. In 1960, a civil war breaks out between the dictator in power, the, who is backed by the US government, and, um, left-wing guerrilla groups. Left-wing means that they lean toward communism. They support some sort of communism idea and hope for a communist government maybe when they overthrow the government, okay? A lot of ethnic minority groups support these left-wing guerrilla groups, these rebels that are fighting the dictatorship. And as a result, you have indigenous people, indigenous communities joining these guerrilla groups or supporting these guerrilla groups, um, and it becomes pretty ugly and dark. Right? I'm going really fast. Um, so, the dictatorship, the dictatorship that is supported by the, the US, but, begins to target, actively target, Maya indigenous communities to kill and eradicate, because they're like, "You people support communism. So, we will go, we will kill you all," right? So, it is active, um, persecution, um, in the 60s and 70s, as the civil war rages on, the government now targets civilian. They are going to go to indigenous, uh, villages and communities, and they will mass murder and massacre indigenous communities, women, children, elderly, doesn't matter, because there is an association with indigenous people and communities and these left-wing guerrilla groups. The extent of the mass massacres of indigenous people by the dictatorship becomes so extreme that today it's known as the silent holocaust. Yeah. So, then there's a coup-de-etat, um, I guess is like another genocide? Yeah. It is. But, uh, some might say, "No, it's not," because it's, I don't think it's officially classified as an official genocide, but many experts will say that, "This is pretty much a genocide." Um, so, things to note: Civil war rages from 60s to 70s, in the, in the, like, mid 70s, it becomes extremely violent towards civilian indigenous people, um, because the dictatorship starts to target them as enemy of the state, um, and eradicates them. But things will only get worse into the 80s. Um, again, we have a succession of dictators, and in the 80s, one of the worst dictators comes to power, and his name is Efrain Rios Montt. He does a scorched-earth policy for the indigenous people. Um, he calls it Operation Success, where he literally goes into communities of indigenous Maya people to just, just burn them down. Uh, burn down villages, kill and destroy all cultural symbols and icons. The US is fully aware of this. Both the two presidents in power at the time during this period of ethnic genocide, President, present? This is, Montt, this is Reagan, by the way. Put these Montt, a president? Yes. He is the dictator. Okay.  He is a general that becomes a dictator. Uh, the US is fully aware of it. What is ironic and kind of sad and dark is that, um, the CIA and Congress continues to supply weapons and, uh, like, military aid to these dictators that are committing these acts of genocide. Why? Because they're anti-communist. We're still in the midst of the Cold War. The, the Berlin Wall does not fall until 1989. Okay. The Soviet Union does not collapse until 1991. So, the CIA and Congress is still supporting these dictators. Meanwhile, the presidents, in public, they're sending aid to the, uh, the civilians that are being massacred. So, we are giving money to both sides in this conflict. We are giving money to the dictator that is doing a scorched-earth policy of killing all indigenous people because they're related to communism, and at the same time, we're also giving aid to the victims of the scorched-earth policy that we are also supporting. Yeah. Things don't get better until 1990. I know there's a lot. Again, these slides are there. Um, things to note is, finally in 1990, the US stops giving aid to the dictator, to the dictatorship. And then, the Catholic Church, under the leadership of a new pope at that time, Pope John Paul II, has this idea of liberation theology, like everybody should be liberated from oppression, poverty, and whatnot. The Catholic, what you, you don't need to write down liberation theology if you don't understand the Catholic-ism. All you need to do is, Catholics Church starts to actively condemn Guatemala and say, "Hey, we know what you're doing in Guatemala. You were killing indigenous people, um, on just, just 'cause. Stop it. It is not okay." Okay? So in 1990, the US stops giving money to the Guatemalan dictators, because the Cold War is about to end, and then the Catholic Church calls out the Guatemalan government. And this starts to make way for peaceful negotiation between the Guatemalan government and the rebel groups, those left-wing guerrilla groups that were fighting, and finally, in 1996, a peace accord is signed by the government and the guerrilla groups, and there's an agreement to kind of start, like, new, new elections. We're going to start over and be better. Yes. What will happen to the Catholic Church? The Catholic Church just calls out the, uh, Guatemalan government. The Catholic Church is the biggest, uh, institution, religious institution, in Guatemala, or it's a remnants of colonization. Most people in Latin America, um, practice Catholicism. So, the Catholic Church has the biggest say. It doesn't, it's not connected to the government, because that changed in the, the 1900s, in the, uh, sorry, the 1800s. But the Catholic Church does have a presence. Like, "Hey, Guatemala, we see what you're doing, and it's bad." And that does let the world, like, also kind of bring in the world, like, "Hey, something bad's happening here. We need to make some changes." Okay. I know, I fast-paced through 60s, 70s, and 80s, but essentially, what happens after the coup? Turn and talk with your neighbors. What essentially happens to Guatemala after the US overthrows Arbenz's administration? 
