that talked about in the documentary.
Uh, Jacobo Arbenz,
He is, he comes from an immigrant family. His
family's from Switzerland, German actually.
Swiss German. Uh, but he grows up in Guatemala.
Born and raised in Guatemala, lived with mostly
the indigenous population. So he very, so strongly
feels Guatemalan.
Um, and he implements a little bit more, slightly
more radical reforms.
Um, his goals as president is to make his country
more economically independent, aka no more relying
on the uh, US corporation, UFC.
Um, modernizing his country, building more infrastructure,
more modern infrastructure for his country.
Um, increasing the standard of living for the
people.
Those are kind of great objectives, right?
Um, only problem is, Arbenz starts to place
individuals who have communistic leaning, or
are associated with a Communist party with the
Communist political party in Guatemala, in his
government.
And that triggers the United States. Like anything
that is left of capitalism is bad at this point.
In 1952, Arbenz um, pushes this policy known
famously as decree 900.
That you might want to note, because that is
not something the documentary talks about. Uh,
essentially, that is the nationalization of
land.
When I say nationalization, I'm not talking
about nationalism.
It's a policy where the government starts to
own things, right?
If you nationalize industry, that means all
the businesses are owned by the government.
If you nationalize land, all the land is owned
by the government.
And there are multiple ways to nationalize
things.
We often associate nationalizing of industry
and property and land to communist uh, regimes
that do it by force, like, I'm going to take
all these uh, businesses, all of this land,
and it belongs to the government now. And you
saw that in China with the nationalization
of industries and land, where it's like you
either give it to us or you die, and we still
take it.
Um, here what he does in his Decree 900 to
nationalize land, um, and then to redistribute
it, is he buys it up.
He buys the land from the elites, or kind of
forces them to, and he buys it from UFC.
And I mentioned in the documentary that we
watched, United Fruit Company had a history
of tax avoidance.
There are two ways that it was doing tax avoidance.
It was either, it didn't have to pay much taxes
when it was exporting the bananas, it was bringing
the bananas out from Guatemala to the United
States. Um, the other tax avoidance was that
it was under valuing its land. Remember in
the last slide with Ubico, under Ubico, 72%
of the land was owned by 2% of the elite population
in Guatemala, and then the rest was owned by
United Fruit Company.
That's a lot, that's like 20-something percentage
of Guatemalan land.
But UFC in their paperwork under valued their
land, oh this land is worthless, it's not
that much.
So when Arbenz comes to power and when Arbenz
issues Decree 900, he's like, I'm buying all
that land back, I'm going to redistribute
it to indigenous populations, to the peasants,
to the poor people who don't have land.
He goes to UFC, he's like, yeah, this, this,
this, this land, I'm buying it back.
Your paperwork says it's only this much, it's
only this value.
And this is when UFC gets very, very unhappy,
right?
Because the land, he's like, you say it's
only worth this much.
I'm only paying you what you said legally on
this document, which they had lied on the document,
because they undervalued their land.
So, cause they're under valued, to save on
paying taxes. It was like, oh, this land is,
it's not worth that much. And now um, uh with
Decree 900, Arbenz is like, okay, I'm buying
it. It is a national policy.
You are a foreign corporation. You must work
around the, with the laws and policies of our
government.
So, Decree 900. Just to review this from your
reading, there's a bunch of policies that have
been put in place and a bunch of institutions.
Do you remember OSA, Organization of uh, South
America?
And then in your reading, they talked about
the Rio Pact. That was on your reading quiz.
Again, this is from your reading.
These are things that were implemented after
World War II.
The Rio Pact is essentially a treaty signed
between the US and a bunch of Latin American
countries saying, we're going to protect each
other, mutual security agreement.
It's essentially, you can write next to Rio
Pact, the Latin, the American, the Western
Hemisphere Americas, version of NATO, essentially.
If somebody attacks us, we'll defend each other.
And then OSA, it's just like, organization
to promote solidarity.
Like, we, the countries of the Americas are
going to work together, treat each other fairly,
everybody's going to be seen equally, we're
going to promote um, equal rights and economic
prosperity for everybody.
But it's really the US behind establishing
OSA, and the US's motive is to contain communism,
and to assert its sphere of influence.
Um, just to remind her, everything that is
um, left of capitalism is considered communism
at this time.
This is just a review, right?
Again, another review, the Declaration of
Caracas.
This was from your reading, um, the reading
of uh, Born in Blood and Fire.
The Caracas uh, Declaration is essentially
making this assertion that communism is foreign
to the peoples and the governments of the Western
Hemisphere, aka the Americas, North and South.
So any communist movements made or are started
in the Western Hemisphere will be considered
a foreign intervention.
Everybody signs, every member of OSA signs
it and agrees to it except for Guatemala, and
that was in your reading, Guatemala refuses
to.
Oh, a, oh, if I said OAS, no.
No.
OAS, I keep on saying OAS.
OAS, so, according to your reading, I want
you to try to recall, look at your notes, turn
in with your table mates, what does the author,
um, from Born in Blood, who is a historian
that specializes in Latin American history,
why does uh, Guatemala vote against the declaration
of Caracas?
Guatemala, why does Guatemala vote against the
declaration of Caracas?
It's a very straightforward answer.
Yeah.
They wanted, they, they voted against this
declaration because they were trying to say,
we don't want US influence, like, we should
try to stand on our own.
We, as the countries of Latin America, the
Americas, we should join together to push back
American influence, American pressure.
This is just a, this is just the US trying
to pressure us to follow along with their policy.
And we too long have been doing that, and that
we should stand on our own.
It's American, this is, this is happening in
'54, this is during the decade of spring.
They overthrew their dictator.
This is in the midst of the Arbenz um, government.
Um, they're feeling it, you know, they're, they're
feeling excited, they're feeling like we can
make a change.
We can try to, you know, push out the US and
it's sphere of influence.
Right?
So if you didn't know that, that's something
to note down.
Okay, I'm going to switch back to US, um, policy.
So these are things that you might want to note
down, unless you're an expert on Eisenhower.
Uh, after Truman, his term as president ends,
he's replaced by Eisenhower, you saw that in
the documentary.
Don't care if you don't know, you don't need
to write his full name, but his name, I remembered
his middle initial, Dwight D. Eisenhower.
He is president from '53 to '61, which is
key because this is the period where we have
the coup, um, and the intensification of the
Cold War.
Truman does, sorry, not Truman, Eisenhower
does accept the Truman Doctrine, which is containment
of communism.
What he takes, a different interpretation.
His administration views that you need to take
an active role in containing communism.
For him, it's not sending aid to help these
countries fight Communist insurgents, Communist
movements, like what Truman did to help the
Greeks and the Turks in their situation.
Truman, sorry, Eisenhower, sorry, Eisenhower
is more of a man of action.
He comes from a military background.
He was a commanding general in World War II.
And so, his interpretation will lead the US
into a policy where they will use the CIA,
which is a clandestine spy organization, to
carry out covert, that means secret, um, hidden
actions against governments and leaders that
the United States government sees, uh, feels
that is directly or indirectly connected to
the Soviet Union, or as, uh, his administration
said, directly or indirectly responsive to
Soviet control.
So we have a different interpretation of containment
policy with this new president.
He's like, we're gonna, we are going to be
more aggressive and active in containing communism.
We're still not going to use direct means,
as in using the US military, because using
the US military is a declaration of war to
the Soviet Union, and then we don't want a
war with the Soviet Union because nuclear weapons.
So we will use our clandestine branches of
the government, which is the CIA, and they
will carry out covert actions.
They will carry out um, the, the agenda that
we want to contain communism.
So, moving forward, this is going to be the
model for containment, CIA, using covert action
against any government or leaders that the US
feels has some sort of direct or indirect connection,
response to Soviet control.
Meanwhile, in the Soviet Union, things are
changing. Uh, Stalin dies in '53, and we have
new leadership, um, afterwards, and it's a
guy named Nikita Khrushchev.
You can just write Khrushchev, you can just
remember him as Khrushchev, that's fine.
Um, he comes to power in the fifth like in
the years after Stalin.
There's a brief period of like collective action,
and then Nikita Khrushchev comes to power.
He implements two policies within the Soviet
Union.
An internal policy of de-Stalinization and
a foreign policy of peaceful co-existence.
In the next slide, I'll explain what each
of these are.
He was quite a fiery man.
Um, he is known to be very, very vocal.
Um, he uh, does not stand down at anything.
He will speak very passionate about anything.
There is a famous uh, incident at the UN where
um, somebody spoke up, I can't remember.
I think the, the uh, representative from like
the Philippines, which was a US colony ish
of at the time spoke up against communism,
and it pissed off Khrushchev, and he was yelling
back, um, and there are stories that he took
off his shoe and slammed, used it as like
a gavel to like, um, to emphasize his point
about um, how, you know, the capitalist countries
are just ganging up on the Communist countries.
There are some images of him doing that.
Most of it, most of those images are doctored,
they're actually fake.
Um, yeah.
But there, like the people at the UN, during
that meeting, some people were like, yeah,
I remember a shoe.
And some people were like, I don't remember
a shoe, like that was made up.
Yeah.
And he's, he's known to be very fiery.
Um, he has a very, very funny interaction
with the US Vice President, Richard Nixon,
in the '60s, um, as he's showing off of, as
they do like a mutual exchange, and we'll read
about their interactions, it's, it's essentially
a debate about kitchens stuff and how capitalism
is better for women, versus, and then Khrushchev
was like, no, communism is better for women
because their kitchen is a, we'll get to that.
Okay, what is de-Stalinization under Khrushchev?
So we have a new leader in the Soviet Union,
we have a new leader in the US, you have Eisenhower
and you have Khrushchev.
De-Stalinization, he's trying to get rid of
remnants of Stalin.
He closes down all of Stalin's Gulags, which
I told you learn last year, right?
Terrible place.
Don't ever want to go there.
Um, and then he destroys a lot of Stalin,
like gets rid of all the Stalin monuments
and streets that are named after Stalin, like
Stalin, or cities and places.
He, he tries to, um, bring down the cult of
Stalin, right?
Essentially trying to legitimize his control
of the Soviet Union.
Like, how can you be the next leader if there's
such a strong cult of Stalin.
He actually gives this like four hour long
speech to the Communist Party, where he literally
rants about how Stalin was bad, um, and kind
of just tries to destroy the cult of Stalin.
That is not known until much later when the
Soviets um, they found like, there was a secret
meeting with only like, you know, Communist
officials and, um, and he, he went on for
a really long time.
I think it was like four hours, just going
off about Stalin.
Um, and then his external policy, which is
really important for us to understand in the
context of the Cold War, he is going to shift
away from Stalin's very aggressive anti-capitalist,
anti, uh, not capitalist, anti-Western democracy,
like US, Britain, France, saying to uh, to
Khrushchev's policy of peaceful co-existence
with capitalist nations.
So create a more positive view of the Soviet
Union.
Instead of just being an antagonistic, like
opposite to the US, um, he wants to create
a show of, hey, it's not bad being in the
Soviet Union.
Life is gonna be better.
And, um, it, it's like, you know, reverse PR,
right?
Instead of saying, capitalism is bad, capitalism
is bad, the US is bad, the US is bad, don't
listen to them.
It's more, he's now saying, the, like, life
under communism is great.
It helps, you know, it, all the positive things
that it can do for the people.
Um, so it is a re, kind of, directing, kind
of the, the portrayal of communism and the
Soviet Union, and he's like, we're not gonna
try to be so aggressive where we're gonna trigger
a fight with a capitalist nation.
We'll, we'll try to peacefully live with them.
We're not gonna try to do this what Lenin
dreams of is like taking over the world and
creating a Communist utopia of everywhere.
Oh, would you say that it was similar to how
like Mao did in Russia?
Peaceful co-existence with Mao?
Where?
To who?
Mao was more focused internally, but like he
was, he wanted like the best of communism.
Like poor China.
Yeah, poor China.
What is, how would you view it the same way?
No.
Okay.
Because this, Mao was focused on China, and
taking back what was China.
The Soviet Union under Lenin and even and
then under Stalin was about, well, specifically
Lenin had a goal of this Communist world, that
they can create.
A comm, this vision of a Communist uh, world.
Stalin was like, we can't create a Communist
world if Russia, who is the leader of communism,
um, hasn't industrialized, hasn't become the
best yet.
So we gotta industrialize, we gotta be the
best that we can.
Then we can be this, we can create our Communist
world and spread.
Um, and last year you studied about the five
year plan and all of those economic policies.
Um, and then after World War II, you see the,
the Soviet sphere of influence in spreading.
That he's, there's this vision of we're gonna
spread communism around the world.
Khrushchev is, is kind of going back and saying,
you know what, there's gonna be some non-communist
worlds, uh, countries, and that's okay, and
we can live with it.
We'll try to uh, peacefully co-exist with
them.
Um, the Soviet Union also tries to avoid any
direct confrontation, like direct fighting,
again, not wanting to trigger another world
war, um, because now everybody has nuclear
weapons.
But there are going to be some kind of direct
confrontation.
In 1956, uh, Hungary, which was a Communist
country, which was in the Soviet sphere of
influence, they, a bunch of students started
to revolt and called for better uh, rights,
uh, uh, more freedoms, um, and that revolt
ended with uh, the Soviet forces being sent
into Hungary to suppress these people.
Um, and then another example of direct, this
is a more closer direct confrontation with
the US and the West, is the construction
of the Berlin Wall in 1961, um, as so many
people from Eastern Berlin were just fence
hopping over to Western Berlin because they
would rather live in the Western part, which
was um, democratic and capitalist, than the
Soviet controlled part, which is uh, the East,
which is under communism.
Um, alright, uh, oh, I got it.
This is from your reading, just the recap
of like UFC and containment.
This was from Born in Blood.
You can take a look at it later, but it's
just re-explain, like I'm just reminding you
that what I said earlier, some of the policies
from these decade of spring presidents in Guatemala
not that radical.
Some of these policies actually were implemented
in the US, but because of containment, the
fear of the spread of communism, the Cold
War going on, and the USCO like lobbyists,
the people that are connected to the United
Fruit Company, playing a part in the US government,
the Dulles brothers, you have the coup that
happens, right?
So the coup is called Operation PB uh, PB Success,
and that was mentioned in the documentary.
Um, there's a lot on here, kind of key things
to note down.
The CIA trains a group of exiles in uh, Nicaragua
and Honduras, countries next door to Guatemala.
So just note, and it's in your reading that
you did yesterday, hopefully, if you read
it.
Okay, just, why is it called PB Success?
Uh, I actually did like two hours of research
on why they chose that name, and my conclusion
from my two hours of in-depth research is that
the CIA picks random um, code names for their
uh, operation.
Like there's no meaning behind the PB.
And the success in, in hopes that it is successful,
because they were successful in doing covert
actions in uh, Iran, which the video mentions,
where they took over, they got rid of one leader
to put in a leader that was friendly to the
US.
So, don't read too much into the name of the
operation, it is random, they just kind of
pick random.
Okay, what happens?
The US trains exiles and secrets, the CIA
does, they supply them with weapons, they supply
them with air, air power.
They send the, the um, these exiles that they
trained into Guatemala and essentially um,
starts, uh, you know, to take over power,
a coup.
By, these people with weapons, the US, is flying
above um, Guatemala, shooting down, and Guatemala's
military and some of it's conservative leaders
in the government are scared that the US will
have a full invasion, so they convinced Arbenz
to resign.
And so he resigns and he flees.
He ends up in like Cuba at one point, and
in another country.
And then the US is happy.
They're like, yay, that was easy.
Um, and this is going, this coup in 1954 is
going to be a model that the US will use for
many other Latin American countries during
the Cold War because it was so successful.
It was so easy to just kick out a leader,
get him to just flee.
After the coup, the US man that they have
chosen, which is uh, um, Castillo uh, Armas.
Um, uh, he takes power, he becomes the next
president through elections, rigged elections.
Um, and he repeals Decree 900.
He repeals the land reforms, and he arrests
80,000 people that he targets as communist,
um, and many of those people are killed or
they disappear.
Okay, so things to note, after coup, the US
man that they chose to lead the coup, uh,
takes power, repeals the decree 900, um, and
arrests and kill 80,000 people that he targets
as uh, communist.
I know, this is But Castillo does not stay
in power for very long.
I'm going to go really fast, because this
part, we'll, we're going, yeah.
He actually gets assassinated a couple years
after his um, uh, in 58.
So like four years after he comes to power,
he's replaced by another dictator.
Um, and that becomes a pattern in Guatemala
that you have a dictator come to power, and
then they are replaced.
They are either assassinated, overthrown,
and another one.
They all do the same thing, they don't, they
work with the US, they um, they support UFC.
In 1960, a civil war breaks out between the
dictator in power, who is backed by the US
government, and um, left-wing gorilla groups.
Left wing means that they lean towards communism.
They support some sort of communism idea, and
hope for a communist government maybe when
they overthrow the government, okay?
A lot of ethnic minority groups support these
left-wing guerrilla groups, these rebels that
are fighting the dictatorship.
And as a result, you have indigenous people,
indigenous communities joining these guerrilla
groups, or supporting these guerrilla groups.
Um, and it becomes pretty ugly and dark.
Okay, I'm going really fast.
Um, so, the dictatorship, the dictatorship
that is supported by the US, but begins to
target, actively targets Maya indigenous communities
to kill and eradicate, because they're like,
you people support communism.
So we are, we will kill you all, okay?
So it is active um, persecution um, in the
'60s and '70s as the civil war rages on, the
government now targets civilians.
They are gonna go to indigenous villages and
communities, and they will mass murder and
massacre indigenous communities, women, children,
elderly, doesn't matter, because there is
an association with indigenous people and communities
and these left-wing guerrilla groups.
The extent of the mass massacres of indigenous
people by the dictatorship becomes so extreme
that today it's known as the silent holocaust.
Yeah.
So then is that classified as um, I guess it's
like another, yeah, it is.
But uh, some, like, saying, no, it's not,
because it's, I don't think it's officially
classified as an official genocide, but many
experts will say that this is pretty much
a genocide.
Um, so, things to note.
Civil war rages from '60s to '70s.
In the, in the mid '70s, it becomes extremely
violent towards civilian indigenous people,
um, because the dictatorship starts to target
them as enemy of the state, um, and eradicates
them.
But things will only get worse into the '80s.
Um, again, we have succession of dictators,
and in the '80s, one of the worst dictators
comes to power, and his name is Efraín Ríos
Montt.
He does a scorched earth policy for the indigenous
people.
Um, he calls it operation success where he
literally goes into communities of indigenous
Maya people to just, just burn them down, uh,
burn down villages, kill, and destroy all
cultural symbols and icons.
The US is fully aware of this, both the two
presidents in power at the time, during this
period of ethnic genocide.
This is Mont, this is Reagan, right?
What is Mont of president?
Yes, he is the dictator.
Okay, yes.
He's a general that becomes a dictator.
Uh, the US is fully aware of it.
What is ironic and kind of sad and dark is
that, um, the CIA and Congress continues to
supply weapons and uh, like military aid to
these dictators that are committing these acts
of genocide.
Why?
Because they're anti-communist.
We're still in the midst of the Cold War.
The, the Berlin Wall does not fall until 1989.
Right?
The Soviet Union does not collapse until 1991.
So, the CIA and Congress is still supporting
these dictators.
Meanwhile, the presidents in public, they're
sending aid to the, uh, the civilians that
are being massacred.
So we are giving money to both sides in this
conflict.
We are giving money to the dictator that is
doing a scorched earth policy of killing all
indigenous people because they're related to
communism.
And at the same time, we're also giving aid
to the victims of the scorched earth policy
that we are also supporting.
Yeah.
Things don't get better until 1990.
I know, there's a lot.
Again, the slides are there.
Um, things to note is, finally in 1990, the
US stops giving aid to the dictator, to the
dictatorship, and then the Catholic Church
under the leadership of a new Pope at that
time, Pope John Paul II, has this, this idea
of liberation theology, like everybody should
be liberated from oppression, poverty, and
whatnot.
The Catholic, what you, you don't need to
write down liberation theology if you don't
understand the colloquialism, all you need
to do is, the Catholic Church starts to actively
condemn Guatemala and say, hey, we know what
you're doing in Guatemala.
You were killing indigenous people, um, on
just, just cause, stop it, it is not okay.
Right?
So in 1990, the US stopped giving money to
the Guatemalan dictators, because the Cold
War is about to end.
And then the Catholic Church calls out the
Guatemalan government.
And this starts to make way for peaceful negotiation
between the Guatemalan government and the rebel
groups, those left-wing guerrilla groups that
were fighting.
And finally, in 1996, a peace accord is signed
by the government and the guerrilla groups,
and there is an agreement to kind of start
new, new elections, we're gonna start over
and be better.
Yes.
The Catholic church just called out the, the
Guatemalan government, and the Catholic Church
is the biggest, uh, institution, religious
institution in Guatemala, or it's a remnants
of colonization.
Most people in Latin America, um, practice
Catholicism.
So the Catholic Church has a big say.
It doesn't, it's not connected to the government
because that changed in the, in the 1900s,
in the, uh, sorry, the 1800s.
But the Catholic Church does have a presence,
and they're like, hey, Guatemala, we see what
you're doing, and it's bad.
And that does let the world, like, also kind
of bring in the world, like, hey, something
bad's happening here.
We need to make some changes.
I know, I fast paced through '60s, '70s,
and '80s.
But essentially, what happens after the coup,
turn and talk with your neighbors.
What essentially happens to Guatemala after
the US overthrows Arbenz?
All right.
Hopefully you got some ideas that very, very,
very bad things happened for a very, very,
very long time after the coup.
Like, you, there are long-term consequences.
The coup, '54, this, this uh, civil war doesn't
end until 1996.
But there still, on Thursday, we'll look at
the long, like, the aftermath of the civil
war and the ethnic genocide.
Um, at this point, I'm gonna give you a break
cause I've been talking a lot.
Take a five-minute break, um, and we'll be
back to the writing process.
