If you are qualified to retake and next Wednesday, uh, let's arrange so that you will be catching up. Does everybody understand the retake, uh, requirement, right? Okay? Uh, when we sign up. Okay. So, I will be reminding you, uh, again. Alright. So please find the packets, uh, over the, find the peer, uh, Ferris wheel problem. So, okay, guys. So, let's go over, uh, this problem, uh, together. I noticed some of you have, uh, some major, some progress. Some of you didn't, so I'm gonna make sure that we are all in the same, uh, pace. Alright. Okay. So, this problem is describing from bottom to the top of the wheel is going to be, uh, 43 ft. Okay? And then, uh, the diameter of this wheel is 40 ft. Okay? That means, from ground to the bottom of the wheel is going to be 43 - 40, therefore 3 ft, right? And then, it takes, uh, one full revolution every 8 seconds, that means, period is going to be equal to 8 seconds. So, to motor this problem, we're gonna use, uh, uh, sinusoidal, especially cosine equation. So, we're gonna say, let's change this, uh, lowercase H to be capital H, so that we do not mix up with the phase shift, H, okay? So, we're gonna use H(t) equal to cos, uh, A times cosine, and then, 2π / period, and then, X, in this case, actually it's t because the t is a time, T - H, and then, plus K. We're gonna use this form of equation, modeling the situation. So, uh, we will say, H is going to be height, okay? Height which will be unit will be feet. And then, T will be time. Time is going to be in seconds. Now, we calculated A, amplitude, and the maximum - minimum / 2, which means, max height - minimum height / 2. In this case, 43 is the maximum height, and then, minimum height is a 3 because ground to bottom of the hill is a 3 ft, and then / 2, which is going to be 40 / 2, which will be 20 ft. That's the amplitude. Now, K is access, right? Vertical shift, and is calculated by max + minimum / 2, so we're gonna say again, 43 + 3 / 2, which is going to be 23. Now, there's another way to determine amplitude and access. Looking at this diagram here, that, uh, from middle line which is a center of the wheel to the, uh, top of the wheel, which will be basically radius, radius is going to be amplitude, right? And then, access will be from ground to the center of the wheel, which will be 3 + radius is 20, so 23 is going to be access. So, you do not have to use this formula, and you can look at the diagram also determine, you know, what is A and what is K value, okay? Now, the most importantly, we needed to know how to determine phase shift H, right? So, it's a problem is describing, it takes 3 seconds to reach to the top, and this top, maximum value, T, which is 3 seconds, it take there, that will be equal to phase shift, which is equal to H, okay? So, we have all the values we need for the equation, okay? A, amplitude, and also period to, uh, 8 seconds, and also phase shift 3, and then K, which is access. So, uh, I'm gonna summarize our equation, H(t) is equal to 20 cosine, and 2π / period, which is 8, and then T - 3, phase shift, and then plus K, which is access. So, I'm gonna to box our final answers. Okay? Is that clear, guys, right? Okay. So, now, B is asking, how high above the ground? Basically, it's asking, what is the H value, right? The height, and, uh, after 8 seconds. So, that means T = 9, I mean, sorry, not 8, 9 seconds, alright? So, I'm gonna, uh, plug it in 9 seconds directly to this equation. So, H of 9 = 20 cosine, So, 2π / 8. I'm gonna simplify it to be π / 4. So, 9 - 3, and then plus 23. And I will be entering, you will be entering this directly in your calculator, and when you do computation, what mode this needed to be? It needed to be radian mode, right? It got to be radian mode, why? Because it's mixing with the time and also that is, you know, the, uh, period to be 8 seconds, therefore, it got to be radian mode. So, uh, I'm gonna give you a time, enter this in your calculator, it is important practice, practice, alright? So, alright. If you are using Inspire, every time you open new calculator screen, you got to check what the mode. And then, if you use a TI-84, okay? Then, uh, once you changed that your mode, alright? In radian mode, and you should be okay. And now, I strongly that once you change the mode, you go to the screen, and then, it should be stay as a radian mode, alright? Now, I strongly recommend write it out, and then enter in your calculator. So, I'm waiting somebody to, uh, then share the answer, if you entered in your calculator. Anybody? Yes. 23 exact, right? So that would be 23 ft. I'm gonna give you a little bit of time to confirm. Okay. If you have issue with the use of a calculator, uh, please make sure that I, uh, ask your elbow partner, oh, myself to help you so that you will know, uh, use of a calculator, because this unit is calculator allowed, and a lot of this computation is involved with, uh, use of a calculator, technology use, okay? I'm putting red star, because this problem is a such important problem, okay? Very important. So we check answers. So, I I kind of noticed that some of you are still working on it. Let's wait a little bit. You got it? 23? Everybody in the? Okay. So now, graphically, alright? So, uh, when it says graphically, must show the graph. So, uh, I'm gonna to sketch the graph. So, open your calculator, type up the equation. Cosine. Alright? Uh, π / 4, I usually, uh, put the π / 4 round, you know, I put the parenthesis, and then, x - 3 and then, + 23, okay? Inspire, you wanna to make sure that graphing screen and check setting, your mode got to be radian, alright? Again, Inspire, every time you open new screen, you wanna check what's the mode. Now, when you are graphing this, you expect to know how to make an appropriate window, okay? So, x got to be, period is 8 seconds. So, you wanted to see at least, two, you know, two and a half period, right? So, you're gonna say 0 to the, maybe, uh, three times 8, so it's a 25 at least, so maybe three period. And then, y, maximum is a 43, therefore, window needed to be 0 to the, at least 45, or, so I'm gonna to do 50, alright? So, uh, the graphical wise, you have to have a knowledge, how to set a window, okay? So, then, uh, you hit the graph here, alright? I'm gonna to erase the 24 now, okay? So, this is the graph you should see, okay? If you do not see this, there is a possibility of two problem. One, you did not set the window right. Second, it's another possibility, you are in the wrong mode. If you are in degree mode, you might be just to see the just straight line, something like that, okay? So, change the mode. Alright. So, I'm gonna to sketch the graph because it's required to as a problem solving, alright? And the sketching graph is appropriate. I do not expect such as, you know, uh, put the exact scale, okay? So, I'm gonna say the top, uh, axis is 50 and then my window is going up to the about 25. Okay? So, this is a T, this is a H. Alright. Then, we're gonna to go, y = to second equation to be, uh, 20, because that we wanted to know, uh, where that's equation, y1, y2, intersect, when it's 20. So, uh, that again, uh, you graph, okay? So, I am going to sketch here, uh, y = to 20, y = 20. Now, problem is asking, uh, how long it take, uh, for you to be 20 ft above the ground, second time. That means, we are looking for, y = 20 intersect with the original graph, second time. So, this is a first time, first time, and this is the second time. I hope that makes sense? So, go, uh, use the intersecting feature in your calculator, find the second time intersection. Anybody can share the answer, T = to? I heard that, 5.19 seconds, in three significant figure. Okay? Alright. I recommend the practice, and you are very capable, and it's a not hard to find this values. Okay, intersection. Alright. I'm going into second methodology, algebraically. Okay? Algebraically means that, uh, you do not need to show both way, just to choose one. And algebraically you say, 20 = to, your equation 2, uh, 20 cosine and then π / 4, and T - 3 and + 23, you are looking for T, okay? First step, take away 23 both side. So then, you have -3 = 20 cosine π / 4, T - 3. Okay? Are we all following, guys? Alright. Then, what's the next step? We're gonna divide both side by 20. Okay? Then, we will put the inverse sign, which is arccosine both side. So, cosine goes away. Then isolate T, final answer, T will be equal to arccosine -3/20 times reciprocal π / 4, so we have 4 * 4 / π, 4 times / π, and then - 3 needed to be added. So, the other side will be + 3. So, you needed to enter this in your calculator, and please check, when you did the enter this in your calculator with radian mode, you should have, okay, I'm waiting. You got the answer already? No? Are you trying it up, please? Yeah, okay. So, let's see, anybody, uh, who got the answer? I'm waiting. Yes, again. 5.192 and therefore, three significant figures and seconds. Now, yes. That is an excellent question. I was waiting somebody ask that, okay? So, how do we know this is not first time intersection, it's a second time intersection? Anybody has some insightful thought? Share the idea. How do we know this is the second time intersection? Okay. So, here is how, uh, we identify. Period was 8 seconds, right? So, between second intersection, first intersection, what's the time difference? Four. Four, half of the period. So, when you subtract four, and you gets 1.19. So, 1.19 is a first intersection, and then, second intersection will be 5.1. Uh, 5.19. Now, if we subtract half of a period, T is a negative value, then we know that is a first intersection. Does it make sense? Because we cannot have a negative, you know, time, right? So, does it I hope it makes sense, right? So, if I ask you, what is a third intersection, without actually doing, uh, doing tracing, what will be the time? 9.19. You will be adding another four second. So, every four seconds, there is just 20 ft height, half of the period. Doesn't make sense? So, that was a really excellent question, and without that, uh, you know, question, I would not discuss that and so which is great. Okay. So, I want you guys, go in, find that. Alright? Uh, this next problem going to be homework, guys. I want you practice, and then the following question, I will also make it as a homework. Now, please go to the page. It says double and half angle identities, and I want you practice Copper toy company problem, right now. Now, you manage this problem, okay? Individually, okay? Then you can say, oh, I get it. I understand how to write equation, motoring, you know, with the situation. So, I'm gonna to give you about five minutes to work on this problems, okay? So. I'm putting red star, because this problem is a such important problem, okay? Very important. Shall we check answers? So. Alright, guys. I solved it algebraically, alright? Knowing the period is, uh, 10, B is π / 5, okay? So, yeah. The, um. Okay. So you explained him. Just the end. I I don't fully get it, but I know how I'm wrong. I have the period. So then, uh, four seconds, right? And that is going to be the phase shift, right? Does that make sense? Alright? 5 seconds later, right? 5 seconds later, then so you timed it twice, huh? Times two. Yeah, times two, right? So. 5 seconds later, you came to the from top to the bottom. So, from maximum to minimum is 5 seconds, that means it need to go up to the maximum again, it will take another five seconds. That's why it's 10 seconds, is period, okay? Got it? Alright. Okay. And I think B is very straightforward. You are just substituting T = 15, you are asking good questions. How do we determine period, uh, knowing that maximum to minimum is 5 seconds, and the period is 10 seconds, alright? Mhm. Or you just make that close from graph. Oh, you can change into cosine. So, uh, because these these are saying, uh, the you, uh, you winded up and start at T = to, uh, 4, but it was the maximum height. Oh it's easier. Easier. Yes. Then if you wanted to do in sign, then you needed to figure out, you know, uh, quarter period the other way, yeah, got it? Which is I think it's going to be not a whole number, right? Yeah. So, now, uh, then the first time, uh, the height spring is 12, uh, centimeter above the ground, I solved algebraically. Of course, you can solve graphically. Then when I solved it, the algebraically, I found T to be 6.5 second. Now, then, I wanted to check if it's a first intersection or second intersection. So, it says that question is asking first intersection, first time, so, I took away five as I said, you are going to subtract half of the period by that values you found, and then I found 1.5 which was not a negative value. So, my answer will be 1.5 second, and I recognize 6.5 second is a second time, it's going to be 12 cm above the ground. Okay? Makes sense? Okay. I, I see some nodding, that's really nice to see, okay? Any questions? So, this is a what I recommend. If you are almost 90% was able to formulate whole process, you got this concept, okay? Again, this will be major concept, big, you know, problem in coming unit exam, you know, material. I hope that makes sense, okay? Alright. Okay. Good exercise. Now, we're gonna go into some more additional identities, okay? So, any questions before I move into, uh, the double and the half angle identities? Okay. So, I'm gonna go into using additional identities, okay? And I'm gonna derive double angle identity of sine 2θ. Okay? So, I'm gonna say, sine 2θ is θ + θ. And therefore, and it will end up to be sine θ times cosine θ + and sine θ times, again, cosine θ, because the x is θ, y is θ. Therefore, it will turn into 2 sine θ cosine θ. So, we conclude that when you have sine of 2θ, sine of 2θ is saying, I have a sine expression, period of π, because 2θ means that, you know, 2π / 2 is going to be period, right? However, that will be equal to 2 * sine θ and the cosine θ, and you can be replacing and we this is known as double angle identity. Okay? And we're gonna to do the exact same thing for the cosine 2θ. So, you say, cosine 2θ = to, now, again, uh, cosine θ + θ, because two there are two of them. And I will call one θ to be x, the other θ to be y, and therefore, you have a cosine θ times cosine θ, - sine θ times sine θ, which make cosine² θ - sine² θ. Okay? So, what does it mean is, uh, cosine 2θ, which is a two angle, right? Two times of angle, you can compute this by cosine² θ - sine² θ. Okay? That's just the directory. Now, if you recall Pythagorean identity is a saying, okay, notes here. cosine² θ = 1 - sine² θ. We already talked about this is a Pythagorean identity, and then we're gonna to substitute in here, then result will be, now, 1 - sine² θ - sine² θ, which will be 1 - 2 sine² θ, which is that implying, cosine² θ - sine² θ is exactly equal to 1 - 2 sine² θ, and that is equal to cosine 2θ, so there is additional identity you can derive. And the same reason, okay? Uh, we also know, sine² θ = 1 - cosine² θ, same logic, I'm gonna to substitute this into sine² θ, so you will say, equal to cosine² θ coming from the above expression, and then you have a - 1 - cosine² θ, that ends up to be negative negative make a positive, so you have a two of a cosine² θ, so you say, 2 cosine² θ and then negative minus distributed - 1. So, we created one additional identity in terms of cosine θ, or when you have a double angle identity, okay? And the next, uh, our task is, how we gonna use it for problem solving, okay? Yes. I think this has to be a sign, isn't it? From this step to this step? You mean the, uh, tangent 2θ = to? There's a 2θ? No, no, the one in the middle. This one? Yeah. So, I'm following this additional identity. So, this x is θ and then y is θ, right? So you say tangent θ and then tangent θ. Okay? So, this is known as additional identity, okay? So, just follow this identity and then we simplify. Excellent question. Okay? Uh, I'm gonna to make sure that there is no exponent there, just making sure, okay? Alright. Thank you very much for asking clarification questions. Okay. I am going to now derive, um, it's known as half angle identity, then this half angle identity will be used for following problem solving. Do you wanna have a little break? Okay. So, I've been munching, munching. So, let's everybody stand up and then stretch, okay? Uh. I do have some, uh, chocolate, okay? If you wanna to. Uh. Okay, uh, you can have some chocolate. I do not have enough donuts, so I cannot share donuts. I have donut, but not enough for everybody. You did the same thing? You're run out the See? See, in my back. I'm back. Oh, I guess the thing right now. Oh, for some reason, I have, uh, this. Oh, for the back. Oh, okay, okay. Uh. Okay. So, uh, this should be in here. Uh. Okay. Liam, uh, I have your task here. Okay, uh. Oh, here you go. And, uh, you didn't got it? Uh. Yeah. You took it, because I had to change it. Oh, did I? Oh, ah. Oh, here you go. Yeah, yeah, I changed it. Yeah. Okay. Okay, guys. All right. So, everybody be seated. Let's do some problems here. Okay. Alright. All the phones goes away, guys. Okay. Alright. So, again, uh, the coming exam, we're gonna allow you use a calculator. However, some of these problems, even that we use a calculator, it's not gonna help you, because you have to show step by step what you're doing. So, here is one example, okay? Uh, I am kind of, uh, presenting this problem, just like what was, uh, in IB exam, okay? However, uh, as the expectation, I will let you know, these identities will be provided. But, in IB exam, they ask you derive these identities, okay? So that's why I'm doing. So, I'm going to start with, okay, cosine, 2x = 1 - 2 sine²x. As you see, this was double angle identity. We just derived, right? We just showed this double angle identity. And in previous exercise here, uh, cosine 2θ was 1 - 2 sine² θ, right? We just showed that. Now, then, I'm going to isolate sine²x. So, you take away 1, both sides. Then, cosine 2x - 1 = -2 sine²x, divide by both sides -2, then you got sine²x = distribute negative to numerator, you have 1 - cosine 2x / 2, and then square root both sides. Then you get sine x = to plus - square root of 1 - cosine 2x / 2, okay? This is something we solved for sine x, then we're gonna substitute x = θ / 2. Okay? Into x, therefore, you have sine θ / 2 = to, plus - square root of 1 - θ / 2 times 2, when you substitute into x here, you just have cosine x, cosine θ, right? 2θ, θ / 2, uh, times 2, which is θ, right? And then, over 2. I'm going to box this. This is known as half angle identity. So, we have ability to derive half angle identity. And then you will be asking, where is it being used? Okay? Go to the next page, here. That was a good question, though, alright? So, we're gonna to change, 195, it's not in unit circle angle. Therefore, I will be changing this to be, uh, times 2, so that, uh, so that will be 390 / 2. That is equal to 195. So, I'm going to rewrite this to be cosine 390° / 2. Now, 390 is equivalent, equal to what? Anybody can share answer? 390 is equal to I, I heard that answer, that is exact same angle as 30° exactly. Thank you. Why? Because it goes a 300° all the way, comes back to the, you know, same position, terminal, uh, side is exactly same 390 and 30, okay? So, I'm going to rewrite this to be cosine 30° / 2, and then use the identity, you have a plus - square root of 1 + cosine 30° / 2. Now, 195° is which quadrant angle? Three. I heard that. Thank you. Therefore, uh, the third quadrant cosine is positive or negative? Can you tell anybody can, uh, tell me? Is cosine third quadrant positive or negative? Negative, exactly. So, therefore, I am going to remove a positive sign. Only wanted to keep the negative, okay? So, you will have equal to - square root of 1 + cosine 30 is what? Cosine 30 self is in unit circle. Root 3 / 2, you are very, very good. You are expert already. So, then that is equal to minus square root of 1 is a 2 / 2 + root 3 / 2, and over 2. Okay? So, now that makes, uh, negative, negative to be positive, and then also, I'm gonna to change 1 to be 2 / 2, because we want to have a common denominator, so you will have square root of 2 / 2 + root 3 / 2 over 2. Okay? So, then 2 * 2 and you will have algebraically, denominator is 4, and then you have a 2 + √3, and root 4, I'm going to take it out of us the radical, so you have square root of 2 + √3 and over 2, that is going to be answer for cosine 195°. So, we know now, when it's not a unit circle angle, and we can still figure out exact values. Theoretically and if you know how to make combinations of identity, and then break it up angles in different, you know, angles, then you theoretically, you can solve pretty much any angle's trick expression. Now, I wanted to also point out second methodology, okay? So, I'm gonna copy down, cosine 195°, okay? I'm gonna break it up, instead of a half angle identity, I'm gonna say cosine 150 + 45. Now, 150 + 45 is also in unit circle, right? So, now, we pointed out that, uh, additional identity, okay? When we derive double angle identity, we used cosine x + y and the additional identity. So, I'm gonna use this to be equal to, cosine 150 times, uh, cosine 45, and then minus sine 150, oh, I'm running out of space, so I will make a little bit more room here. Okay, let me rewrite this with more room, okay? Cosine 150 cosine 45 minus sine 150 and sine 45. That's a additional identity, okay? Be aware, this will be available for you, okay? So, we're just gonna to follow trigonometry. What's cosine 150 = to? It's second quadrant, therefore, it's a negative √3/2. Now, cosine 45, of course, it's a √2/2, right? Now, what is the sine 150? It will be positive 1/2, okay? And the sine 45 is √2/2, of course. Therefore, - √6/4 - √2/4 and you, if you wanted to, you can write down, negative, √6 - √2 / 4. I mean, it's up to you, but it's both are correct expression, okay? So, again, uh, this is imply these two values are exactly same if you rationalize it, okay? That's what is implying, and we got the, uh, different methodology and also, we got answers. Okay? Any questions on this? So, even it's not in unit circle angle, and if we use appropriate identity, half angle identity, additional identity, and double angle identity, we should be able to solve it and into the values of exact answers. Okay? So, I want you guys to practice, uh, this is a posted as a homework, guys. Uh, let's see, 373, okay? I'm gonna to put this a little bit zoom in, alright. Okay. Practice number 6, A and B, right now. Okay, it's your time to practice. Okay. Alright. It needed to be done in your notebook, practice it. So, there was a, uh, students. Because I didn't wanted to put the name any student. You guys were talking, I couldn't call out your name, because it was a recording. I supposed to not to. Come on. You guys are, you're lucky, guys. I almost said the, you know, wrong, but I couldn't. I, because I supposed to not have a student name in it. Okay. Alright. Stop. Thank you. Okay. Alright, guys, practice it, okay? Guys, alright. You know, that's something I'm not alone. I mean, you can talk, but I can, I can rephrase your saying, but I cannot name the person. Yeah, because that's, uh, that's one thing I cannot put the name in it. Yeah. Oh, for some reason, I have a this. Oh, okay, okay. Uh. Okay. Mr. A. So, uh, you failed turning in this assignment, or I need to show you. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Make sure you do it. I still grading it. Yeah, okay, okay. Just making sure. You have to say I'm a good. Oh, for Okay.