If you are qualified to retake and next Wednesday uh let's arranges so that you will be catching up. Is everybody understand the retake requirement right? Okay when we sign up. Okay so I will be reminding you again, alright? So please find the packet uh over the find the pair uh fair's wheel problem. So, okay guys. So let's go over uh this problem together. I noticed some of you have some major some progress, some of you didn't, so I'm going to to make sure that we are all in same uh pace. Alright? Okay, so this problem is describing from bottom to the top of the wheel, it's going to be uh 43 feet, okay? And then uh diameter of this wheel is 40 feet, okay? That means from ground to the bottom of the wheel is going to be 43 minus uh 40 therefore, 3 feet, right? And then it takes one full revolution every eight seconds, that means period is going to be equal to eight second. So to model this problem, we're gonna use uh sinusoidal especially cosine equation. So we're gonna say, let's change this uh lowercase H to be capital H so that we do not mix up with the phase shift H, okay? So we're gonna use H over T equal to cos uh A times cosine and then 2 pi divide by period and then X, in this case actually it's T because T is a time, T minus H and then plus K. We're going to to use this form of equation modeling this situation. So, uh we will say H is going to be height, okay? Height which will be, unit would be feet. And then T will be time, time is going to be in seconds. Now, we calculated A amplitude and the maximum minus minimum divided by two, which means max height minus minimum height divided by two. In this case, 43 is the maximum height and then min, mum height is a three because the ground to bottom of the heel is uh 3 feet and then divide by two, which is going to be 40 / 2, which will be 20 feet. That's the amplitude. Now, K is axis, right? Vertical shift and that is calculated by max plus minimum divide by two. So, we're gonna say again, 43 plus 3 divide by two, which is going to be 23. Now, there's another way to determine amplitude and the axis, looking at this diagram here that from middle line, which is a center of the wheel to the top of the wheel, which will be basically radius, radius is going to be amplitude, right? And then axis would be from ground to the center of the wheel, which will be 3 plus radius is 20, so 23 is going to be axis. So, you do not have to use this formula and you can look at the diagram, also determine, you know, what is A and what is K value, okay? Now, the most importantly, we needed to know how to determine phase shift H, right? So it's a problem is describing, it takes three seconds to reach to the top, and this top maximum value T, which is a 3 seconds it take there, that will be equal to phase shift, which is equal to H, okay? So, we have all the values we need for the equation, okay? A amplitude and also period to uh 8 seconds, and also phase shift three, and then K, which is axis. So, uh I'm going to summarize our equation H over T is equal to 20 cosine and 2 pi divided by period, which is 8, and then T minus 3 phase shift and plus K, which is axis. So, I'm going to to box our final answers. Okay? Is that clear, guys, right? Okay. So now, B is asking how high above the ground, basically, it's asking what is H value, right? The height and the uh after 8 seconds, so that means T equal to 9, I mean sorry, not 8, 9 seconds, all right? So, I'm gonna uh plug it in 9 second directly to this equation. So, H of 9 is equal to 20 cosine, so, 2 pi / 8, I'm gonna simplify to be pi / 4. So, 9 - 3 and then plus 23. And I will be entering, you will be entering this directly in your calculator, and when you do the computation, what mode does it need to be? It needed to be radian mode, right? It got to be radian mode. Why? Because it's mixing with the time and also that the, you know, the period to be 8 seconds, therefore, it got to be radian mode. So, uh I'm gonna to give you time, enter this in your calculator. It is important practice, practice, alright? So, alright. If you are using Nspire, every time you open new calculator screen, you got to check what's the mode. And then if you use TI-84, okay? Then, uh once you changed that your mode, all right, in radian mode, and you should be okay. And now, I strongly that once you change the mode, you go to the screen, and then it should be stay as a radian mode, alright? Now, I strongly recommend write it out and then enter in your calculator. So, I'm waiting somebody to uh share their answer if you entered in your calculator. Anybody? Yes? 23, exact, right? So, that'll be 23 feet. I'm gonna give you a little bit of time to confirm. Okay? If you have issue with the use of the calculator, uh please make sure that I uh ask your elbow partner or myself to help you so that you would know uh use of a calculator because this unit is calculator allowed and a lot of this computation is involved with use of a calculator. Technology use. Okay? [silence] 20, cosine, parenthesis, parenthesis, right? And then sometimes using parenthesis pi over 4 is also helpful. Yeah. Okay, if you got that, can I see thumb uh guys? Alright? Beautiful, beautiful. Yes! Good job! Alright? So, now, uh move on to the C. I'm gonna show you how to solve the C, two method. And number one, graphically. Oh, I I kind of notice some of you are still working on it. Let's wait a little bit. You got it? 23? Everybody in the, okay. So, now graphically, alright? So uh, when it says graphically, must show the graph. So, uh, I'm going to sketch the graph. So, open your calculator, type up the equation. cosine. Alright, uh pi over 4, I usually uh put the pi over 4 around the, you know, I put the parenthesis and then x - 3 and then plus 23, okay? Nspire, you wanted to make sure that graphing screen and check setting your mode got to be radian, alright? Again, Nspire, every time you open new screen, you wanna check what's the mode. Now, when you are graphing this, you expect to know how to make appropriate window, okay? So, x got to be period 8 seconds, so you wanted to see at least two, you know, two and a half periods, right? So, you're gonna say zero to the maybe uh three times 8, so it's 25 at least, so, maybe three period. And then y, maximum is 43. Therefore, window needed to be zero to the at least 45, or so I'm gonna to do 50, alright? So, uh the graphical wise, you have to have a knowledge, how to set a window, okay? So, then, uh you hit the graph here, alright? I'm gonna to erase the 20 for now. Okay, so, this is the graph you should see, okay? If you do not see this, there is a possibility of two problem. One, you did not set the window right. Second, it's another possibilities you are in the wrong mode. If you are in degree mode, you might be just to see the just a straight line, something like that, okay? So, change the mode. Alright? So, I'm going to sketch the graph because it's required to uh as a problem solving, alright? And the sketching graph is appropriate, I do not expect such as, you know, uh put the exact scales, okay? So, I'm gonna say the top uh axis is 50, and then my window is going up to the about 25. Okay, so this is T, this is H. Alright? Then, we're gonna to go, y equal to second equation to be uh 20 because that we wanted to know uh where that's equation y1, y2, intersect when it's 20. So, uh that again, uh you graph, okay? So, I am going to sketch here uh y equal to 20. y equal 20. Now, problem is asking uh how long it take uh for you to be 20 feet above the ground second time. That means, we are looking for y equal 20 intersect with the original graph, second time. So, this is the first time, first time, and this is the second time. I hope that makes sense. So, go uh use the intersecting feature in your calculator, find the second time in a section. Anybody can share the answer, T equal to I heard that 5.19 second in three significant figure. Okay? Alright. I recommend practice and you are very capable and it's uh not harder to find these values, okay? Intersection. Alright. I'm going into second methodology, algebraically. Okay? Algebraically means that uh you do not need to show both way, just to choose one. And algebraically, you say 20 equal to your equation 20 uh cosine and then pi over 4 and T - 3 and plus 23, you are looking for T, okay? First step, take away 23 both sides. So then you have -3 = 20 cosine pi over 4 T - 3, okay? Are we all following, guys? Alright? Then, what's the next step? We're gonna divide both side by 20, okay? Then we will put the inverse sign, which is arc cosine, both sides. So, cosine goes away. Then, isolate T, final answer T will be equal to arc cosine -3/20 times reciprocal pi over 4, so we have 4 times 4 / pi. 4 times / pi, and then - 3 needed to be added. So, the other side will be plus 3. So, you needed to enter this in your calculator, and please check, when you did enter this in your calculator with radian mode, you should have Okay, I'm waiting. You got the answer already? No? Are you trying it out, please? Yeah. Okay. So, let's see, anybody uh who got the answer? I'm waiting. Yes? Again? 5.192 and therefore, three significant figure, and second. Now, yes? So, that is an excellent question. I was waiting somebody asked that, okay? So, how do we know this is not first time intersection, it's second time intersection? Anybody has some insightful thought? Share the idea. How do we know this is second time intersection? Okay. So, here is how uh we identify, period was 8 seconds, right? So, between second intersection, first intersection, what's the time difference? 4. 4, half of the period. So, when you subtract 4 and you get 1.19. So, 1.19 is a first intersection, and then second intersection will be 5.1 uh 5.19. Now, if we subtract half period, T is a negative value, then we know that is a first intersection. Does that make sense? Because we cannot have a negative, you know, time, right? So, does I hope it makes sense, right? So, if I ask you, what is a third intersection without actually doing uh doing tracing, what would be the time? 9.19. You would be adding another 4 seconds. So, every 4 seconds there is just a 20 feet height, half of the period. Does it make sense? So, that was a really excellent question and without that uh, you know, question, I would not have discussed that and so which is great. Okay? So, I want you guys go in, find that, alright? Uh, this next problem gonna to be homework. I want you to practice and then the following question I will also make it as a homework. Now, please go to the page, it says double and half angle identities. And I want you practice copper toy company problem right now. Now, you manage this problem, okay? Individually, okay? Then you can say, oh, I get it. I understand how to write equation, modeling, you know, with a situation. So, I'm going to give you about 5 minutes to work on this problems. Okay, so. I'm putting red star because this problem is such important problem, okay? Very important. [noise] Should we check answers? So, I saw the algebraically, all right? Knowing the period is a 10, B is a pi over 5. Okay? So, yeah.  You did the period? The end of the stream so, Okay. So you explained him just to answer I don't fully get it, but I feel I know how I am wrong. So then, uh, 4 seconds, right? And that is going to be the phase shift, right? Does that make sense? Alright. 5 seconds later, right? 5 seconds later, then so you times it twice, huh?  Times it two. Yeah, times two, right? So 5 seconds later, you came to the from top to the bottom. So, from maximum to minimum is 5 seconds, that means you need to go up to the maximum again, it will take another 5 seconds. That's why it's a 10 seconds, is a period, okay? Got it? Alright. Okay. And I think B is very straightforward. You are just substituting T = 15. You are asking good questions, how do we determine period uh knowing that maximum to minimum is a 5 seconds and the period is 10 seconds, alright? Mmhmm. Oh, you could change into cosine. So, uh because this this is a saying, uh the you uh you wind it up and start at T equal to uh 4, but it was the maximum height. Easier.  Yes. Then, if you wanted to do in sign, then you needed to figure out, you know, uh quarter period the other way. Yeah, got it? Which is I think it's going to be not a whole number, right? Yeah. So, now, uh then the first time uh the height spring is 12 uh centimeters above the ground, I solved algebraically, of course that you can solve graphically. Then when I solved it, the algebraically, I found T to be 6.5 seconds. Now, then I wanted to check if it's a first intersection or a second intersection. So, it says that question is asking first intersection, first time. So, I took away 5, as I said, you are going to subtract half of the period by that values you found and then I found 1.5, which was not a negative value. So, my answer will be 1.5 seconds and I recognize 6.5 seconds is second time. It's going to be 12 uh centimeters above the ground. Okay? Makes sense? Okay, I, I see some nodding, that's really nice to see. Okay? Any questions? So, this is what I recommend, if you are almost 90% was able to formulate whole process, you got this concept, okay? Again, this will be major concept, big, you know, problem in coming unit exam, you know, material. I hope that makes sense, okay? Alright. Okay. Good exercise. Now, we're gonna go into some more additional identity, okay? So, any questions before I move into uh the double and the half angle identities? Okay, so I'm gonna go into using additional identities, okay? And I'm gonna derive double angle identity of sign 2 theta. Okay? So, I'm gonna say, sine 2 theta is theta plus theta and therefore, and it will end up to be sin theta times cosine theta plus and sin theta times again cosine theta because the axis theta, y is the theta. Therefore, it will turn into two sin theta cosine theta. So, we concluded that when you have sine over 2 theta, sine over 2 theta is just a saying, I have a sine expression, period of pi, because a 2 theta means that, you know, 2 pi / 2 is going to be period, right? However, that will be equal to 2 times sin theta and the cosine theta and you can be replacing and we, this is known as double angle identity. Okay? And we're gonna do exact same thing for the cosine 2 theta. So, you say, cosine 2 theta equal to, now again, uh cosine theta plus theta, because two, there are two of them, and I will call one theta to be x, the other theta to be y, and therefore, you have a cosine theta times cosine theta minus sine theta times sine theta, which make cosine square theta minus sine square theta. Okay? So, what does it mean is uh cosine 2 theta, which is a two angle, right? Two times of angle, you can compute this by cosine square theta minus sine square theta, okay? That just directly. Now, if you recall, Pythagorean identities are saying, okay, notes here, cosine square theta is equal to 1 - sine square theta. We already talked about, this is a Pythagorean identity, and then we're gonna to substitute in here, then result will be now, 1 minus sine square theta minus sine square theta, which will be 1 - 2 sine square theta, which is that implying cosine square theta minus sin square theta is exactly equal to 1 - 2 sine square theta, and that is equal to cosine 2 theta. So, there is additional identity you can derive. And the same reason, okay, uh we also know sine square theta is equal to 1 - cosine square theta, same right logic, I'm gonna substitute this into sin square theta. So, you will say equal to cosine square theta, coming from the above expression and then you have minus 1 - cosine square theta, that ends up to be negative, negative make a positive, so, you have a two of a cosine square theta, so you say, 2 cosine square theta and then negative minus distributed -1. So, we created one additional identity in terms of cosine theta, or when you have a double angle identity. Okay? And the next uh our task is, how we gonna use it for problem solving, okay? Yes? From this step to this step? You mean the uh tangent 2 theta equal to? There's a two theta? The  this one? Yeah. So, I'm following this additional identity. So, this x is theta and then y is a theta, right? So you say tangent theta and then tangent theta Okay? So, this is known as additional identity. Okay? So, just follow the this identity, and then we simplified. Excellent question. Okay? Uh, I'm gonna to make sure that there is no uh exponent there, just making sure, okay? Alright. Thank you very much for asking clarification questions. Okay, I am going to now derive um, it's known as a half angle identity, then this half angle identity will be used for following problem solving. Do you want to have a little break? Okay, so, I've been marching, marching, so let's everybody stand up and then stretch, okay? I do have some uh chocolate, okay? If you wanna to, uh, okay, uh, you can have some chocolate. I do not have enough donuts, so I cannot share donuts. I have donut but not enough for everybody. [silence] Okay. [noise] Students who are absent today, tomorrow they come back, they recognize, we are speaking all different language. Because we will be very advanced. Yeah. We, we just know how to solve things differently now. [silence] Mr. Sorraya A. [silence] So uh, you failed the turning in this assignment. Oh I need to show you. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Make sure you do it, I still grading it. Yeah, okay, okay. Just making sure. [silence] Okay. Practice number 6A and B right now, okay? It's your time to practice. Okay. All right. You needed to be done in your notebook, practice it. So there was uh, students [silence] Because I didn't want it to put the name, any student. You guys were talking. I couldn't call out your name because it was recording, I supposed not to. Come on, you guys are, you're lucky, guys. I almost called the, you know, run, but I couldn't. I, it's because I supposed not have a student name in it. Okay, all right. Stop. Thank you. Okay, alright, guys, practice it. Okay, guys. Alright. You know that's the something I'm not. I mean, you can talk but I can, I can rephrase your saying, but I cannot name the person, yeah, because that's that's one thing I cannot, put the name in it. [silence] Oh, for some reason, I have a this. Oh okay, okay.
